this is the end of september 2021.
some of you are thinking about how
you're going to pay your rent and so
you're asking yourselves
is this the end of the world or what um
obviously the discourse about global
warming has just been renewed in the
international headlines because of the
elections that unfolded in germany
and you know both sincerely and in
sincerely the question of what if
anything we're going to do about global
warming it's become a uh a political
football in pretty much every set of
elections that unfolds in every western
capitalist democracy we just had the
least interesting elections in the
history of canada
where i'm living right now
and again whether sincerely or
insincerely these kinds of questions
were bandied about now for the most part
as a vegan i watch all this with my arms
folded and my face frowning in a kind of
disapproval kind of agonized disapproval
because if you are vegan from your
perspective you have to ask how question
pardon me how serious can any of these
questions be when none of you seem to be
willing to stop wearing leather shoes
[Laughter]
i just want to say at the start of this
video
it is completely surreal the extent to
which people are willing to entertain
the hypothetical possibility
of abolishing airplanes
of traveling by canoe from los angeles
to tokyo instead of by airplane as if
that's a viable substitute but they have
no interest whatsoever in substituting a
vegan chocolate bar
for a milk a cow milk chocolate bar they
have no interest in substituting uh tofu
or black beans for beef etc etc so you
know i am not going to pretend that it
is easy
to replace you know meat with a vegan
diet for some people it's agonizingly
difficult
you know for cultural reasons due to
unfamiliarity due to the sentimental
attachments they have to eating turkey
at thanksgiving in this kind of sense
but you know what however great your
sentimental attachment is to turkey if
you compare that to the type of
transformation of our society that would
be entailed
by replacing aircraft travel with boat
travel with
abolishing or exponentially reducing the
number of cars on the roads
such that private car ownership cease to
exist and cease to part of our society
such that 90 of people 90 of the time
are traveling by bus
a prospect that might seem a little bit
different now in the year 2021 when
we've all been made more acutely aware
than ever of the extent to which transit
by bus and subway spreads disease
you know maybe you didn't think about
that so much i did i did i mean it was
growing up as a teenager in toronto
uh you know my first year of high school
it was really horrifying to recognize
the extent to which you had a head cold
all the time you had a cold six months
of the year because you were traveling
by bus and subway and i really resented
it that you were being in this tight
confined space with other people
well in the year 2021
our perspective on those issues has
doubtless changed in deep in a little
bit okay is that is that what you want
is that what you want us to build a
society in the future where there are no
airplanes
where there are incredibly few
cars or none at all where we i mean i
hate to say this but if you really do
the research if you're really familiar
with what the trade-offs are do you
really want to abolish
coal power plants do you really want to
abolish gas powered power plants really
really do you want to live in a society
where electricity is scarce or expensive
you know where it becomes a luxury to
have the lights on in your house or a
good example already we stopped baking
bread
because the electricity pill went up too
much when we were baking bread and
electric i'm not joking it was more
expensive for us to bake bread in our
own house from scratch than to buy it
from a bakery because of the cost of
electricity what happens when the cost
of electricity
doubles now you start thinking about how
much electricity you're spending to boil
rice or or boil beans is that the kind
of society you want to live in and do
you want to make those sacrifices to
leverage this flagrantly
immoral
destructive
unhealthy unnecessary diet that's based
on the endless exploitation of of cows
and pigs okay so look i i rarely look at
these things in this kind of um
apocalyptic framing but i was talking to
an old friend recently a friend i hadn't
spoken to in a couple years
and she was really saying how amongst
her colleagues who are generally kind of
overeducated people the people with
master's degrees and phds how really
over the last three years but i don't
know i'm saying three years the last few
years five years or something like that
the discussions about global warming
have shifted from
hope and optimism to questions of
relative hopelessness or people are
sitting around and talking about okay
look so when we're 60 years old how bad
is it going to be
like to what extent within our lifetimes
when i'm when we're 60 years old when
we're 80 years old are we going to be
looking at a world where major cities
that we once knew are permanently
underwater to what extent in our own old
age are we going to be looking at these
whole
moral fables and parables we've been
talking about now for decades and
decades talking about since at least the
1980s really i remember the 1980s we
knew about the stuff in the 80s you know
to what extent are we in our old age
going to live to see the terrible nearly
apocalyptic consequences of our actions
and our relative inaction in in coping
with this and changes now
the other thing about making this video
in the year 2021 is that most of us have
lost faith in the vegan movement and
note that i say
movement all right
it's not that i've lost faith in
veganism as a diet or something
it's not that it is harder to buy vegan
ice cream in 2021 than it was in 2015.
vegan ice cream has become more readily
healthful than ever a lot of these kind
of vegan food substitutes are available
on store shelves everywhere however yeah
we're now living through a period of
time where we have to look seriously at
veganism as a failure so i want to talk
about that in terms of optics
i want to look at that in terms of
tactics and then i want to look at that
in terms of intellectable realities
meaning realities we can't extricate
ourselves from realities we can't change
at this stage of the game in 2021. you
know so i can ask you you know you don't
have to answer
you got people in the audience right now
you could answer you know do you have
any faith
do you have any positive hope or
expectations that veganism as a movement
is going to have a major decisive impact
on global warming within the next 20
years
we don't have more than 20 years to talk
about
this is 2021 already imagine if we were
having this conversation back in 1985
okay
we're not it's not 1985 it's not 1995.
you know
it's not very hypothetical it's not very
conjectural between
2021 and 2041
how much is going to change and how much
is veganism going to have to do with it
again some of you will be watching from
europe alexa what's the time in berlin
in berlin it's 1208 am
by the way i wish i could tell you
that this mug was made by my
eight-year-old daughter but it's not
my mother bought me this as like an art
object so it's like you know some adult
intentionally made this look like a
child
it's a very amateurish looking bug
um
if you crunch the numbers and do the
math
the greatest pardon me the greatest
accomplishment of the last 20 years
has been the dramatic reduction of
poverty on planet earth and this is very
inconvenient for left-wingers
because
left-wing and marxist ideology is based
on the notion that capitalism is making
poverty worse and worse all the time
that class struggle is getting worse and
worse of the time until it hits a
breaking point and there's a revolution
and then this ushers in the next era
of marxist so-called materialist
historical development okay the reality
is contrary to the last contrary to all
the left-wing propaganda over the last
20 years to an astounding extent the
amount of poverty on planet earth has
declined the the quality of life of poor
people has increased the total amount of
wealth on earth has increased and
a significant part of that has been
communist countries giving up on
communism and adopting free market
capitalism so you know more than one
billion people in china emerged from
extreme poverty and i just want to be
very clear on this very briefly i can
talk about history and politics china
all day i do have expertise in formal
education in that area as well as
informal education
at the end of the mao zedong era in
china
the people of china were poorer than the
people of communist russia they were
poor than the people of communist
yugoslavia they were poorer than the
people of communist east germany
the people of china at the end of mao
zedong's life they were actually poorer
than the people of mongolia and mongolia
was also communist country so you're
saying communism produced extreme
poverty over a huge part of the planet
earth but in terms of the sheer number
of people living in poverty china was a
huge part of that and then they gave up
on communism they now have a completely
cynical communist party political system
with a capitalist economy
one billion people emerged from extreme
poverty into moderate affluence the
whole continent of africa
basically took up a series of failed
experiments in socialism few of them
went all the way to communism but there
was so-called moderate socialism which
failed and failed and failed south
america too there were some experiments
with outright communism in south america
like cuba central america you know but
socialism rather than communism failed
so in just the last 20 years the year
2000 to the year 2021 we have been
largely living on a post-communist
post-socialist planet earth
and so that's also been in terms of just
crunching the numbers it has been the
triumph of capitalism that is in large
part brought about a dramatic reduction
in poverty worldwide from 2000
guess what the problem is
they eat more meat
no exceptions
no
exceptions
thailand
is a theravada buddhist country
as they emerge from poverty they eat
more and more meat
india
religiously is a mix hindu
buddhist
jain
muslim
significant number of christians too in
india it's religiously divided as india
becomes less poor
whether or not they want to admit it to
you they eat more and more
meat all right these are we're talking
this adds up to billions of people the
whole super continent of africa the
population itself has dramatically
increased just the number of people in
africa has increased to an unbelievable
they eat more meat ever heard of japan
they eat more i mean the point is
even in contexts where culturally people
did valorize vegetarianism and veganism
even in contexts where there's there's a
real reason for them to refuse meat or
to take pride in eating very little meat
or none at all even in those cultures
people in the last 20 years have been
eating dramatically more meat so you
have two very simple problems there one
the amount of meat eaten per capita has
increased meaning the amount of meat
eaten per person on planet earth's
increase and the second problem is there
were more people right
so you have a triumph over
poverty
that in and of itself can simply
foretell the end of planet earth that's
it
guess what from an ecological
perspective
poverty was better
this is not this is like
hyper-malthusianism
or malthusianism if that's you're
pronounced
if you're that's your preferred
pronunciation you know
hypermeltousianism hyper malthusianism
um
people starving to death living in
poverty and not being able to afford
meat was preferable because even in the
countries where there's an acknowledged
cultural value on vegetarianism or
veganism that's what happened last 20
years so tell me what's going to happen
in the next 20 years
do you have any
hope or optimism whatsoever that this
tiny failed movement that's primarily
based in california and tel aviv israel
these are the centers of strength right
in the like top three places on earth
for veganism los angeles calif tel aviv
israel
taipei
taipei taiwan like dude i've been there
is there is no vegan movement like
politically it's dead i mean i think all
three places is dead you know what i
mean
uh used to be back when there were
statistics for this used to be within
north america number one was california
and the number two was vancouver
vancouver canada
it's dead trust me and i knew people
were part of that scene too it's it's
dead you know what i mean but anyway so
so you think a bunch of eccentrics
clustered in just a few areas this way
do you think they're gonna
lead a transformation
of the material culture of planet earth
you know because that's really what
we're talking about we're talking about
something much more profound and
widespread than changing the way
electricity is generated you know what i
mean most of you today you wouldn't
notice the difference the electricity
coming out of your light bulb if it
switches from a coal power plant to a
solar power plant your life doesn't
change in any way no the electric it
might become more expensive the bill
might go up but you know your life
qualitatively doesn't change okay you
are talking about qualitatively and
quantitatively changing everything for
billions of people and it is the
opposite transformation that's going on
everywhere okay so just to give you guys
a quick example i can dive with this all
day and i'm happy to read your comments
anything you guys want to say that's on
my level i'm i'm totally happy to read
and reply
i lived in a little third world country
called cambodia you ever heard of it
just south of laos just west of vietnam
just east of thailand
coziest little place on earth
it blew my mind
that cambodians
were eating
chicken breast
imported from the united states of
america
uh purdue chicken
shout out to the corporation
purdue corporation p-u-r-d-u-e
they are so efficient
at farming chickens of course factory
farming however in the united states of
america that the richest country in the
world
is able to export
chicken meat
at a profit to the poorest country in
the world all right
and if you talk to cambodians themselves
they tell you like the value for money
was better with buying the american
chicken so this comes down to like the
size and how much of it's edible and
like you know i i don't eat meat i've
already been vegetarian for a million
years at that point whatever you know so
like you know i'm not i'm not into it on
that level but you can imagine what the
differences are that when you buy this
american chicken you get this blob of
perfectly formed relatively enormous fat
chicken meat and when you actually buy
like a whole chicken from a cambodian
farmer
even if they've cut the head off for you
or something you have a lot of work and
it's scrawny and you like it maybe more
weight but how much of it can you
actually eat or how much of it you have
to put in a stewing pot you know it's
it's just kind of a different deal a
dollar for dollar pound for pound
so there i was in a country
where cambodians were eating american
hamburgers for the first time they had
american fast food they had french fast
food they had donuts
uh cambodian refugees who had gone to
california and worked in donut stores
came back to cambodia we're making and
selling donuts they had they had coffee
in disposable paper cups for the first
time and i'm just saying these are these
little things these are the signs of
modernity as they emerge from post-war
swallower and emergency communism
you get coffee in a paper cup and a
doughnut you know you know
mass-produced paper box you know this
this is it they've caught up with the
21st century right
and they're dying dude the diet is
killing them
could see the the obesity and that they
couldn't cope with it they'd gone from a
situation of scarcity and eating green
vegetables because there was nothing
else that could eat to you know on a
massive scale people uh
gorging themselves on this rich western
food
cambodia is a profoundly buddhist
country deeply deeply buddhist
what do you think stronger guys what do
you think is a stronger interest what do
you think is a stronger influence
for the next 20 years on planet earth
buddhism
or veganism
it's pathetic how little power animals
do that and i'm going it's been getting
worse in the last few it's been getting
worse not better we've been in decline
you know i mean that in terms of optics
tactics inelectable realities veganism
is in decline okay here's another
context
what do you think is more influential on
planet earth on the scale of billions i
just said
veganism versus buddhism
how about veganism versus communism
we can call
communism a failed ideology okay
i don't care where you are whether
you're in california whether you're in
communist china whether you're in
southern india
you can just see looking around youtube
the communists have numbers the
communists have millions and millions of
passionate
followers and supporters and they're
hyped they they're playing to win
those guys are optimistic they think in
the next 20 years they can make utopia
on planet they're willing to kill for it
bro they're willing to go to jail and
die they will do all kinds of
we're not we're not willing to do jack
[ __ ] i mean vegans we're we're barely
motivated to take pictures of ourselves
in bikinis on instagram to save the
world right that's what we've been doing
right
so uh
you know you've got to calibrate your
claims right people who tell you oh
veganism is a really powerful successful
movement like over the last 20 years now
looking at the next 20 years
okay well i'm saying we're powerless
compared to buddhism or powerless
compared to communism and the reality is
even much more massive well-funded
movements with a huge passionate
following like buddhism and communism
they are powerless relative to the
overall tide of increasing wealth
increasing consumerism the triumph of
capitalism globally right which has
resulted in people even in africa even
in cambodia even in china now eating
more hamburgers than ever and also more
donuts than ever like it's not it's not
just meat and dairy and eggs but
cultures where cheese either didn't
exist at all
or cheese was a rare luxury right cheese
is now part of their diet three meals a
day that would include a place like
japan by the way where it's the
emergence from poverty is less dramatic
but right after world war ii the end of
world war ii how many japanese ate
cheese even once a week it was like they
didn't it wasn't totally unknown to them
but like cheese was not a regular part
of that well guess what you know
and japan is not the most extreme
example of this kind of transformation
so
you want to talk about global warming
um the difference that could possibly be
made by elon musk
promoting rooftop solar panels
compared to the increase in per capita
consumption of meat and then the number
of heads the total population growth
more people eating more meat on the on
the planet it's a joke right so we are
in a position
now
where we can't win
i mean that sincerely
so
the title of this video i'm asking you
is this the end of the world and i'm
saying to you yes
it's game over we lost bangkok is going
to be under water listen
let's be clear there are two
possibilities here one is that the
scientists are wrong right which they
have been repeatedly um now what do i
mean by wrong i mean that like the the
estimates have been exaggerated that you
know bangkok will only be a few inches
under water instead of a few meters
anywhere okay we can luck out and by the
way i've heard some legit scientific
arguments about that
the extent to which the calculations for
the amount of solar radiation coming in
they can be i
you know
i'm obviously i'm i'm not a global
warming denier or something like that
but they could be inaccurate by
significant margins we could luck out
not by any virtue of ours but it could
be that the actual effects on ocean
levels are not as bad as
as
anticipated i'm saying
it could also be that we use purely
technological forms of intervention so
you guys might have heard you can use
satellites to reflect away more of the
sun's radiation
again this is not a moral or ethical
thing it's just you start putting
satellite arrays up that uh you know
reduce the total amount of sun's the
sun's energy that's warming the earth
and you can also allegedly uh chance of
gases in the earth's upper atmosphere
the more i've read about that the more
skeptical i am about it it seemed like
the early pro were incredibly optimistic
that you could just dump you could just
modify the concentrations of gases and
and solve the problem as a short-term
fix and it seems to me as people have
done more research it's like well
you know you can maybe you can maybe
shave five percent off or something but
it's uh it's not it's not gonna help
that much so so uh you know just say you
guys it's cool you guys are having a
conversation with yourself someone just
said what about the health benefits all
right i'm just pointing out what we're
talking about in this video are not
benefits all right
we're talking about bangkok being
underwater
we're talking about i'm i'm not that old
we're talking about within my lifetime
within the next 40 years that i'm
telling my children or grandchildren
yeah i remember what bangkok was like
before it became a scuba diving
attraction all right now a very short
story i told before when i worked in
bangkok i worked for the government of
thailand
and we were building a new museum it's a
complex project with several museums uh
actually complex of different museums
and i could talk more about it but it
boils down to
building museums
and i was shocked when i visited one of
the construction sites and i saw them
digging into the earth and so what's
called a backhoe it's a big
robot that reaches down with its giant
metal claw when it was pulling up just a
little bit of land there was water right
there it was like millimeters below
ground level
it's salt water too it's not fresh water
it's semi-saline it's a mixture of ocean
and uh it's brackish water i think
people say right i was like
wow all of a sudden i feel like i'm
standing on a lily pad like i didn't
realize the earth i'm standing on
like it's it's millimeters above sea
level in downtown bangkok and the guy i
was just literally standing next to
talking with he was he was that kind of
engineer so i forget what
architectural engineer or something like
this and he was like oh yeah and he
starts talking me through like all the
technical problems they have to deal
with when making skyscrapers in bangkok
because of the the way the the ecology
already is the way the water table
already is et cetera and the city does
frequently flood i mean it goes up to
people's wastes just with rainwater
being excessive from that so i mean yes
yeah you know health problems ethical
problem you know sure that's normally
what i talk about is talking about as an
ethical movement but here we're talking
about the failure of veganism as a
political movement
and what that means in this palpable way
within the next 20 years
within the next 40 years given what's
happened in the last
20 years and let's really talk about
failure
on that level you know what i'm saying
and what and what happens next yes
because of the failure of veganism
more people are going to have heart
attacks
more people are going to be obese more
people are going to have diabetes
more people are going to have brain
aneurysms they're going to have uh
atherosclerosis of the brain they're
going to have reduced mental capacity if
so what's the term yeah the dementia and
so on vascular dementia pardon me people
are going to have all kinds of horrible
health problems because they're not
vegan and
i'm going to be telling my daughter that
there used to be this wonderful place
called bangkok and now if you go and you
rent scuba gear you can dive down and
see what it looks like under water right
so this this is the scale and nature of
the failure we're talking about
look at your comments for a sec
so scarface senior says quote i thought
haiti was poorer so look i just uh just
being honest i was i was uh indulging in
some uh rhetoric in referring to
cambodia as the poorest country in the
world in america is the richest country
in the world i actually neither neither
is true america is not literally the
richest country in the world nor is
cambodia the poorest country in the
world i was i was just exaggerating for
rhetorical effect there i was
simplifying um but it is you know
obviously one america is an incredibly
wealthy country and cambodia is an
incredibly poverty certain country uh
depending on how you measure it you know
luxembourg is much wealthier in the
united states so on and so forth
so i'm sorry i'm just literally reading
your comments guys
so obviously a lot of people in this
audience have heard my my critiques like
my criticism of what's been going on the
vegan movement over the past five years
i've been on youtube for more than five
years talking about what's going on
in the in the movement raphael comments
quote from my perspective veganism has
been mismanaged and needed to be watered
down to survive the backlash what was
once a political movement has become a
consumer choice i assume you mean
consumer choice movement uh
quote the idea of changing supply and
demand through boycott has been rigged
by the meat and dairy industry that is
profiting off of the overwhelming
majority of vegan products the market
adapted all right so close quote um
so raphael
regardless of how optimistic people
might have been about veganism as a
boycott movement in 1985 or 1995 right
we're now at a point where we can say it
failed right now to be fair we can also
talk about the ways in which has
succeeded right
uh you can get on an airplane and you
can select a vegan meal
this is a success right like it's an
option um it is possible to get a vegan
meal on an airplane not always easy
sometimes it's you're pissed off and
it's not very impressive what you get
you get nothing but an apple but it is
an option so like if those are your
standards for success and failure it's a
success here's the problem every time i
take an airplane so whatever there are
300 people on the plane or something you
get these big flights and you get to see
exactly how many people are vegan
because they come around with them like
oh so on this whole airplane there are
only two people who are vegan
like every time you're doing a poll so
you know
we're not talking what's hypothetical
here we're talking about what's what's
actual
um
before writing a science fiction novel
you know what could work is one question
and then what actually did work and
what's happening next in the in the next
20 years is what we're really talking
about this video so i'm not i'm not
really disagreeing with you i'm just
trying to kind of frame and direct uh
the conversation like melissa
yeah i i also tend to be like blinded by
this because i'm not thinking about it i
don't see it every day i'm not working
in a restaurant that makes
that serve me right however i was just
reading an article
in new jersey
migrants from afghanistan immigrants
right afghanistan there are 8 000 of
them living in tents a big tent city
okay they serve them
6 000 pounds of chicken and beef in one
day six thousand pounds six thousand
pounds of meat a day so this is a
refugee camp
with eight thousand people
and they have six thousand pounds of
meat per day that's the stuff yeah
do it
eight thousand people
and 8 000 people is considered a small
town
i mean you know to be a city we're
talking about many tens of thousands of
people
eating many many tens of thousands of
pounds of meat and cheese
per day yeah
quote so many things here like you know
thank you guys these are sympathetic
comments and by the way if you have a
second hit the thumbs up button some
more people can join the conversation
more haven't it
quote the problem with the vegan
movement is humans don't actually gain
anything from it so you're peddling this
difficult lifestyle where you have to
sacrifice all of your favorite foods and
get nothing as a result
uh sammy continues quote the majority of
people are selfish and greedy and won't
make sacrifices especially not for a
creature they consider as lowly as a
chicken or a fish
so sammy again i'm not talking about
what's hypothetical i'm talking about
what's actual
what if you lived in a culture
where people convince themselves that
sparing the life
of a chicken
the difference between going to heaven
and going to hell
lived in that culture i was a scholar of
theravada buddhism
baked into that culture
bedrock part of that religion is that
you shouldn't even kill a mosquito to
kill a mosquito to kill an ant to kill a
cockroach is immoral all right so they
are committed and and their childhood
fables like what they're taught as
children right it's all of it is very
compatible with veganism okay and guess
what
you know some points even there even in
a buddhist culture
you were looking at rising and
accelerating levels
of meat consumption per capita cheese
and dairy consumption per capita right
thailand cambodia laos sri lanka
all of them now i just say specifically
as you may know in hindu cultures
uh in india and also the kind of
hindu-influenced buddhism of sri lanka
today they also regard cows as sacred
this is not even to mention myanmar aka
burma
really depressing example in myanmar so
they they have a little bit of an extra
special sentiment in their hearts for
cows
look at the statistics you know look at
the reality of how much more they're
eating so look uh even if you believed
that this sort of question of personal
motivation mattered
even this has you know utterly utterly
failed you know so even in these
contexts um the prospects of the vegan
movement in the next 20 years
are zero and what actually happened in
the last 20 years is a terrible failure
okay
um
okay so this is what i want to want to
come back to i am reading your comments
guys raphael said further uh quote i
think the problem is that veganism isn't
offering anything not doing something
harmful can't be the best we've come
we're coming up with to change the
outcomes of the future
um
scarface senior says to me this is a
related comment uh vegan gains was
horrible for the movement so starting
with my fellow youtuber and competition
uh vegan gains
so
we have a grocery store here
with a magazine rack
now you can ask yourself this in your
grocery store is the magazine rack at
the front of the store like is it is it
an important part of the store or is it
way back buried in the back of the store
today in my grocery store the magazine
rank it's not a major important part of
the grocery store anymore they don't
really expect many people to buy
magazines it's back with the children's
toys and dog toys i think they have pet
food and stuff back there it's kind of
in an obscure
corner of the store yeah that's a whole
other topic the culture of pet ownership
and these things right
um
you know
what what happens if you walk over to
that magazine rack and say i want to buy
a magazine that has beautiful women in
bikinis
it's not hard to find
there are so many different excuses for
magazines to have beautiful women in
swimsuits or other kinds of revealing
attire you know some of them are movies
about pardon me some of them are
magazines about the movie industry some
of them are magazines about fashion some
of them are magazines about health and
fitness some of them are magazines about
kind of romance or your sex life some of
them are pornography i suppose you know
this kind of there's this huge range of
topics
uh various pretexts and excuses to show
beautiful women in flattering poses now
you can say something similar about men
how about men you know showing off their
muscles
a whole bunch of different magazines for
that under different headings some of
them
you know more or less explicitly
pornographic some of them about health
and diet and fitness and what have you
how do you think it could be possible
for the vegan message to break into that
already crowded market based on
vanity right how do you think we could
possibly get ahead by having one more
magazine on that shelf with a picture of
a woman in a bikini or one more magazine
on that shelf with a man showing off his
muscles and
how lean he is this sort of thing that
is exactly the path that veganism tried
to walk
in the last 20 years now
i'm going to come back to buddhism for a
moment okay
you could go to a very different kind of
bookshelf
and look at all the religious and
political ideologies of the world and
you could say well okay there are a
whole bunch of different political
ideologies here that have claims to
being
pure
and morally superior
and upright and sober and you know
certain kinds of uh
very different kind of vanity being
catered to by various hippie new age
religions and traditional religions
competing for your attention on that
bookshelf i think you could ask a very
different question to what extent could
veganism break through by competing with
transcendental meditation
mormonism
hinduism as reinterpreted for white
people with dreadlocks you know what i
mean like you know there are many
different bookshelves and many different
ways in which veganism has tried to
break through and reach a mass audience
and change the world and every single
one of them has failed
including you know the strategy vegan
games adopted now vegan gains he
personally became wealthy and famous so
you can say it worked for him how about
aaron janus aaron janice personally
became famous and i think very briefly
she was wealthy she didn't make that
much money over that long but she made a
lot of money in a in a short time right
there are people who have changed their
own lives
uh james aspie
you know transformed his his own life
right but how much of a difference can
james aspie possibly make in the world
by peddling his message in terms of here
is a woman in a bikini here is a man
with his shirt off showing off his
muscles here is somebody competing for
this thing of really vanity of vanity
he's physical vanity there's also a
certain extent to which he's doing kind
of lifestyle vanity a life of leisure or
a life of luxury so on and so forth and
then trying to associate that with the
vegan movement and trying to get mass
support for that again support so
powerful so overwhelming
that it's going to change the tide of
you know basically consumerism the
triumph of capitalism the reduction of
poverty the fact that people have more
money to spend and that they're spending
it on meat because they perceive meat
and dairy
meat and cheese as part of the enjoyment
of life i think they're also probably
spending more money on drugs and alcohol
i mean probably globally sobriety is in
decline as never before too in the last
20 years and in the next 20 years how
much do people just spend their their
relative affluence both money and and
free time on altered states of
consciousness
uh shall we say now i just say we can
stick with james aspie as an example
it's totally possible james aspie will
switch strategies many vegan leaders
have
it's possible he will start to style
himself as more of a guru
that he will become ostentatiously
humble and spiritual and appeal to these
kinds of ethical
arguments you know instead of saying
look great feel great
you know
go on vacation and this exotic island
swim on this beach go snorkeling he's
into a lot of snorkeling footage you
know as opposed to appealing to your uh
your your lust for women in bikinis and
your your snorkeling envy or have you
you know this this kind of lifestyle
activism it's possible
that he'll start to present himself more
like
hitomi mojuzuki he's going to present
himself as this overly serious
humble
naval gazing self-examining self-pitying
kind of you know new age religious
leader there's plenty of that going on
how much of a difference has that made
in the last 20 years how much of a
difference can it make in the next 20
years i'm here to say to you it has been
a failure it is a failure it's going to
keep on failing and especially when you
calibrate the outcomes when you're no
longer just saying oh how much easier is
it to get vegan ice cream than it used
to be oh it seems like veganism is a
huge success but that's standard now i
know there are five or six different
vegan ice cream options that you're at
your grocery store but when you're
actually facing up against the enormity
of the challenge with uh global warming
it's clear that this has been this has
been a total failure it still is failing
and it's going to go on to fail even
more melissa if you want to jump in you
can jump in i'm i'm i'm going to look at
the the comments and
so we have people saying here too uh so
sammy is a vegan he's been vegan since
the the 1980s
and he says
i'm one of the only channels talks about
this honestly he says quote the health
the health benefits aren't that huge you
can still be healthy you know with a
non-vegan diet
within certain limits and so on so look
especially when you're talking about
people under 50 of course that's true
that's always been the weakness of
trying to argue like the only the only
way to be sexy is to be vegan petta
still does that freely the banana girl
still does that well guess what go to
the beach and interview all the sexy
people in bikinis about their diet
you're going to find out there are a
whole bunch of different diets that let
people look great in a bikini you know
male male and female but you know if
we're just talking about women uh for
the sake of it
you know
use the example a million times every
issue of cosmopolitan magazine is
telling you about another diet that
another woman in a bikini swears has
changed her life and helps her look
beautiful enough to appear in
cosmopolitan magazine every month
there's a new issue of this magazine
with another beautiful woman on the
cover who will tell you about the diet
sheets and like 99 of them are not vegan
whether you're talking about runway
models or athletes or movie stars
almost all these people are not vegan
now you can look into what their diets
are there's a whole variety of them but
you can be a gorgeous
movie star
athlete and not eat a vegan diet so the
claims that we can make an argument for
veganism as if we are exclusively the
only
healthy beautiful people in the world of
course it's going to fail now the
question about whether the health
benefits are tremendous or not it does
vary a little bit from person to person
um
okay but again we're calibrating this
this discussion is about
global warming uh the futility of it
how dramatic would the health benefits
have to be
to motivate people to become vegan on
this huge scale necessary for it to have
an impact on on global warming right
that's that's the problem that's when it
becomes futile you know i do think i
have health benefits from being on a
vegan diet i do think you know i can
give you different examples of specific
people who did have really significant
perceptible
benefits from a vegan diet but
you know you would have to be talking
about something unbelievable
unbelievably dramatic self-evident uh
health benefit where you walk through a
crowd and you can tell oh that person's
vegan you know like you would you'd be
glowing compared to everyone else or
something that's not the case at all
as a drug yes
as attractive
and beneficial
well i was thinking about that the other
way around you know people look so much
worse when they smoke cigarettes drink
alcohol and use drugs you know it
changes your appearance for the worse
dramatically but that still isn't enough
to motivate people to become sober to
quit drinking quit smoking quit using
drugs you know so you know the benefit
you'd have to get from a vegan diet as
opposed to a you know self-discipline
non-vegan diet
it would it would have to be
unbelievably transformational and it's
not and and again
if it were we can look back at the last
20 years i think everyone here can
remember the year
2001 this ain't new i mean if that
strategy worked it would have worked in
the last 20 years you know and it's uh
it hasn't worked it's not going to work
and looking forward we are pretty much
talking about in this sense the end of
the world the end of the world as we
know it you know
and and by the way um you know
in terms of vegan intellectuals i'm not
saying this on any kind of ego trip
who is more prominent than i am in the
english language in 2021 i can't talk
about japanese vegans or something you
know i do not have a lot of competition
and most of my competition is very very
seriously tainted like they were they
got attached to uh
corporate interests and sponsorships and
made corrupting compromises that taints
their significance in the movement now
so as a great example tobias leonard
tobias leonard tried to present himself
as an intellectual leader for the beacon
movement he became totally despised
but he would be he would be one of my
competitors for who is a significant
intellectual
in the vegan movement okay so you know
what um
if this is such a big deal guys like you
know veganism and global warming and the
end of the world
do you think i've had one email about
this
in the last six months
i get more email about the civil war in
syria i get more in the last six months
i've had more email about afghanistan
i've had more email about buddhist
philosophy i got a bunch of email about
ancient chinese philosophy like
confucianism and taoism you know people
write to me they want to know my opinion
they want to talk to me about
quite a variety of things
do you think there's any interest do you
think there's any initiative and again
i'm not saying this to brag i'm saying
who else are you gonna turn to who else
you're going to work with let's see
let's let me narrow this down within
canada
how much competition do i have who else
is there if you wanted to make a
difference and some people are elderly
there are some people who are old and
wealthy
what are they going to do call up paul
bashir
like who else is there to talk to in
veganism if you want to make a
difference now if you want there are
some people there are you can call paul
bashir see what kind of [ __ ] answer
you can talk to paul bashir but i'm just
saying it like in the past five years
almost nobody has ever talked to me but
i can definitely say to you in the last
six months or two years there is no
initiative coming from anyone else
anywhere of of this kind so the the
extent and the depth of the despair it's
it's significant and no nobody's giving
voice to that i mean it's implicit it's
tacit
um
[Music]
now you know what have people talk to me
about in veganism basically bikinis it's
basically what what's going on is people
say oh well
we're gonna have this festival we're
gonna have a music festival like there's
there's partying there's celebration
going on but this is pretty much what we
could call you know fiddling well rome
burns
now look in terms of the ethical
argument also just visualize how many
animals are being tortured to death for
no good reason
every day
one of my favorite examples is talk
about leather shoes so at the beginning
of this video i said look it is not
reasonable to imagine a world where
people use a canoe
to get from los angeles to tokyo instead
of flying an airplane now i also want to
say when you actually do the math
calculate how much food you're going to
eat how many days it's going to take to
travel by boat between los angeles and
tokyo whether using a gas-powered boat
or a
or canoe and
the ecological difference starts to
disappear like if you just compare the
amount of jet fuel burned that's one
thing okay but what about all the
ecological impacts of having thousands
and thousands of people who are spending
like a week of their life sitting on a
boat eating meals and not going to work
you know they're eating and flushing the
toilet and everything for all the time
that they're in they're in transport
instead of being one day of
transportation maybe talking about seven
days of transportation these are also
significant impacts and to some extent
you guys will know this if if for
example within the united states of
america you just had to drive from from
los angeles to new york if you decide to
drive across the country it's not just
the cost of gas it's not just you can't
just measure ecology that way you're
going to stay in hotels you're going to
eat food
yeah so there were other costs and there
were other impacts including other
ecological impacts to to estimate well
you know what i've got to tell you
if you look at nike air force one
sneakers this is just a specific brand
of basketball shoe
look at the leather
shoe
and the vegan shoe the same design the
same shoe functionally there is
absolutely no disadvantage to you as a
basketball player or in terms of fashion
or function of the shoe by eliminating
leather in the shoe right and i've
already mentioned this a million times
the u.s army they got rid of leather
boots for everything except some
decorative uses like parade boots it was
actually more functional to have vegan
boots than leather boots you can imagine
materials like a rubber are just more
effective for what you actually need
boots to do you know
rubber and canvas and steel these other
these other materials
so you know whether you're talking about
construction boots or you're talking
about
uh you know sports sneakers or have you
not there is no disadvantage and there
are actually some advantages to using
the the vegan version well what if you
actually believed that the world was
going to end due to our indifference in
the face of global warming what if you
were actually trying to eliminate the
leather industry
when
50 years from now
it's gonna be too late
and if you say 50 years maybe it's going
to take 500 years when are we going to
eliminate leather shoes guys
now
imagine imagine if we were having this
conversation back in the year 1985
it might have all seemed pretty far off
in the distant future like well
this is 1985 we have a few decades to
play with i think it's quite possible
people in 1985 would say well
let's try to eliminate
leather boots by the year 2015. you know
i mean it would have seemed like plenty
of time
1985 to 2015 it's plenty of time to make
this change right well it didn't happen
and now it's and now it's too late
really now in every sense it's like so
how's it gonna how's it gonna happen
guys who's gonna make it happen i just
wanna say not one person has ever
written to me
so in the whole what were eight years
for the teacher not one person has ever
written to me with any initiative any
proposal not even wanting to have a
meeting not wanting to have a skype call
not wanting to have a phone call not one
person including you people in the
audience right now [ __ ] you you have no
initiative okay none of you are trying
you know i've been talking about it for
for eight years and i've been saying
again again who's with me who wants to
get organized and who wants to do
something the next five years all right
now
look
these kinds of things that can happen at
a small scale they can happen at a huge
scale
i used to live in a small town in
england called saint nietz
so not worth describing well okay i
guess it is worth describing saint nietz
is on the road that connects cambridge
england to oxford england so if you're
living a life that's connected to both
cambridge and oxford it's a great place
to live
you know any of these smaller cities
like that do you think it would mean
nothing to make leather shoes illegal in
saint nia's i think it would be
tremendously meaningful and you make it
really clear from day one you say guess
what you're next
uh you'll be the poster
you know and to actually enforce that
law and let people know no no
if you set foot in this town
you literally can't walk on the sidewalk
here in leather shoes and to brutally
enforce it so just give you an example
you could have the cops charge you a 50
fine
and hand you a pair of galoshes like one
size fits all rubber boots you know if
you wear leather shoes here you're fined
the shoes are taken off your feet you're
giving galoshes so you can keep walking
and that's it
no guys we're not
could be worse could we put you in
prison give you a life sentence you know
what no
okay and you start of course everyone
will be talking about it if you're just
one town makes leather shoes illegal
and enforces it it would be a sensation
be talked about around the world you've
got to start asking what the [ __ ] is the
point of having an animal live its whole
life
in a steel cage on a concrete floor just
to suffer and die
to have its skin
turned into this object and again the
reality is after a very short time
leather develops creases and wrinkles
and it's such a hassle polishing leather
to try to make it look good after it
lasts a very very short time i know i
know a lot of guys in hip-hop culture
they they buy leather shoes and they
wear them for like one week you know
it's most famous air force ones a lot of
the men's shoes yeah wrappers and stuff
they only wear it a couple times and
throw it out or give it to their give it
to their cousin or something because
it's not it doesn't look fresh anymore
it doesn't look good it's terrible
material to make shoes up it's not
effective you know um
okay so i'm just saying guys you know i
used to i used to give all kinds of
other examples about ways to do vegan
activism the mix of positives i used to
talk about having a pancake stand or a
waffle stand or whatever each http all
this stuff if you guys think i've been
turning down opportunities to collab if
you think there is one person in the
city of vancouver who's ever offered to
work with me you're wrong if you think
there's one person in los angeles when
we went to los angeles even if briefly
if you think there's one person in
taiwan one person in israel one person
in athens greece
one person in all of france one person
in all of germany i'm here to tell you
not even one person all i've had from
the vegan movement
is sexual harassment
and [ __ ] mythology and rumors and
innuendo made up about my life by
obsessive stalkers
people like quote-unquote vegan
revolution this guy josh who made up the
story that i secretly work for the cia
then i'm a double agent but people like
that he's one example but there were a
whole bunch of oh they get fascinated
with my youtube channel and oh what was
he really doing in cambodia okay when
you're done being fascinated when you're
done literally and figuratively
masturbating
about the [ __ ] you've made up about my
sex life you know what i mean okay now
can we save the planet like now like now
do you want to save a billion animals
now do you want to make leather shoes
illegal like okay you done jacking off
like you know
see
i care about the other stuff too money
fame power respect sex okay but there
are 24 hours in a day right
well
we were supposed to be the people who
are trying to save the world look at the
last 20 years look at the next 20 years
what the [ __ ] is gonna happen
all right i'm so sick and tired of
coming on this microphone and saying the
future of veganism is you
and i'm just being real with you whether
we're talking about vancouver
of course victoria ottawa toronto i was
in toronto heavily i met [ __ ] every
vegan in toronto i went to that
conference there it's not worth
describing i met [ __ ] john sachar's
in toronto uh los angeles you know
london england berlin paris we were in
paris we put out all these messages you
know on youtube and whatever other
social media website hey we're going to
be in paris if there's anyone connected
to veganism not one person
not one phone call not one person on
skype right and if you think we can't
make a difference of course we [ __ ]
can
whatever you make a difference through
lawsuits there's all kinds of [ __ ] you
can do you can start suing you know
slaughterhouses for polluting the river
and [ __ ] whatever there's all kinds of
things you can do that aren't [ __ ]
street protests right
um
you know and again if you can't do it
here do it somewhere else what if the
first city to make leather shoes illegal
is in india or is in sri lanka or is in
taiwan i'm down within the last five
years what the [ __ ] else is i do with my
life you know so i'm just saying you
know
you can call
me lazy all right my channel is a litmus
test i've had more than 5 million views
i don't know how many hundreds of
thousands of actual viewers that were
adding up to those 5 million views not
one of you has ever shown any initiative
to do
anything with me or even to tell me
about something you're gonna do without
me like you're just telling me about a
great project you're doing that you
don't need my help with you don't want
people you're just telling me about
symposium not one
so like the the depth and extent of the
failure here
you know it can't be exaggerated now
what has happened
instead what is going on it's just the
pursuit of money fame power respect sex
i see one generation after another of
frankly beautiful young woman in the
bikini trying to be the next test bag
so i always digress that for once if you
don't know who tess begg is
um she's apparently quit youtube but she
was someone who briefly like for maybe
two years was was making a lot of money
out of out of youtube and you know
showing herself in very revealing attire
in bikinis and what have you and with
the photograph taken at just the right
angle
and talking about the food she eats and
selling cookbooks and advertising
jewelry advertising uh different kinds
of products that we're vegan
they're vegan products you know so for
maybe two years she was making a lot of
money doing that and when the money
dried up she stopped uploading she
stopped being in in this incredibly
low-key sense
of vegan activist now i gotta tell you
something um
if there are 10
more women who become the next test bag
it's not going to make any [ __ ]
difference
okay we probably in the last 20 years
how many test bags have there be how
many have come and gone all right if
there are ten more
nina and miranda's it's not going to
change anything it's not and there
probably are i mean probably if you look
around i mean in the last 20 years how
many nina and randa's have there been in
the next 20 years how many events and i
just want to say this explicitly
today
my youtube channel gets more views per
month than test bag today
month than nina and miranda their fame
came and went with their youth and their
sex appeal right like they had a brief
period where a lot of people wanted to
look at them
naked or as close to naked as they could
get and then it's over
so you know whatever what little i have
to brag about i know i know that some of
my viewers masturbate listening to these
videos i know because they've written in
and told me all right i'm i'm sorry kids
sorry some people are under 18 watching
this i literally know that i have
viewers who jack off watching my videos
uh
there are women sorry male and female
but you know there are there are i have
gay male fans too there are literally
people who've watched it saying that
they watch these videos for autoerotic
purposes okay but i can say the vast
majority of my audience is not here
putting up with morality lectures from
me hearing me think and talk about
politics
you know for those reasons for why
they're tuning into you know and test
bag right but looking back at the last
20 years and looking ahead at the next
20 years
it doesn't matter
how
how could a hot chick in a bikini the
next test bag whoever it's going to be
who's the maddie lynn burner mad fit
okay if you think the future of the
vegan movement is the next test bag the
next maddie limber the next freely
how could the next
chicken a bikini the next beautiful
woman in a bikini to endorse the vegan
movement
how could she have more impact than
oprah winfrey
okay
overall winfrey for several years
promoted the vegan diet more than any of
us ever could okay oprah winfrey
featured on her channel reaching
millions of people repeatedly and for
the whole episode the authors of the
skinny [ __ ] diet book
remember that
it's forgotten now
the skinny [ __ ] like seriously what
were the most influential books about
veganism in the last 50 years you may
hang your head in shame but one of the
most it may be the number one most
influential book in the last 50 years on
veganism was the skinny [ __ ] and why
in significant part in large part
because it was promoted by oprah winfrey
okay
none of y'all can compete with none of
you in the next 20 years i don't care i
don't care how hot you are i don't care
how good you look in a bikini we've done
that we've been through that right we
have exhausted the upper limits of
what's possible hey guys who's the next
richard who's the next vegan gaines
you know like there's a point of
diminishing returns this [ __ ] ain't new
i don't think there can be another
richard like i don't think i don't think
the next oprah winfrey is gonna have the
same impact the last oprah winfrey had
like this is true in many different
media i don't think the next michael
jackson can ever change the world as
much as the first michael jackson did
you know what i mean like something i
mean this unrelated to veganism right
um you know there's never going to be
another elvis presley in that sense you
know what i mean in terms of the dawn of
the record industry the recording museum
all the different social and political
factors that made that the kind of
unique turning point that it was and
made his fame as deep and
influential as it was okay the next
freely
it's not going to have the impact of the
last really partly because everyone's
heard this [ __ ] before it's old
okay
there's nothing new there's nothing new
in a bikini for you to see there is
nothing new
in softcore porn
and there hasn't been since the
invention of the camera okay there is
there is nothing new you can possibly
show on instagram that we haven't seen
before there's nothing new on only fans
there's nothing new on pornhub it's the
same vagina again and again and again
it's it can't possibly change the world
we can't possibly win that way
all right
let's go to the opposite extreme in the
vegan moon what are you going to do
peddling meditation you [ __ ] what
the [ __ ] are you gonna do what are you
gonna do that wasn't already done in the
1960s or the 1880s okay none of you were
going to have the impact
of the transcendental meditation
movement in the 1960s and 1970s it's
impossible it's impossible to start a
new cult based on these same promises
about meditation and enlightenment
that's going to be more influential than
what was already done in 1960s and 1970s
same thing
right you can't be that there is never
going to be another elvis presley you
know
it's just going to be exponentially less
influential and sorry conversely there
will be another elvis presley there will
be another uh whatever the example is
there will be another michael jackson
there will be another 50 cent in hip-hop
but it will never have the same impact
that the that the first one did right
there's this kind of cultural cycle of
diminishing returns right whoever you
are you're not going to have the impact
oprah had when oprah
took the vegan diet and including
ethical arguments for veganism and put
them on mainstream television reaching
millions of viewers for the first time
people had never heard the word vegan
before oprah took it on right this is
huge it's a turning point right well
guess what all this [ __ ] about
meditation
it has not changed since madame helena
blavatsky
okay none of you are going to have the
impact of levatsky none of you are gonna
have the [ __ ] impact of a complete
piece of trash like elrond hubbard the
founder of scientology good luck
it's 2021.
you want to start a new cult based on
reincarnation and [ __ ]
meditation
let's see you do better let's see you be
more successful than l ron hubbard let's
see you be more successful than hell up
helen blavatsky that is like you saying
to me all you're going to do is hold a
microphone and ask people their opinion
and you're going to be more influential
than oprah winfrey [ __ ] you
it's it's literally impossible it's
completely [ __ ] impossible you'll
never eclipse
oprah winfrey you'll never eclipse you
know what you're never going to eclipse
jesus christ you're never gonna eclipse
siddhartha gotama the buddha okay you
can't this [ __ ] ain't new
you know you can't influence the world
as much as the buddha himself and i
started this video off by saying look at
the reality in cambodia look at the
reality in thailand and the cultural
force of buddhism
it's still so weak
it's still so trivial and so pathetic
compared to
these rising levels of wealth rising
levels of corruption you know uh so on
and so forth
you know yeah we got one comment from
the audience someone's saying they
remember that book the skinny [ __ ] so
melissa if you want to if you want to
jump in you can jump in obviously we got
a lot of we got a lot of comments to the
audience i can't keep up with
oh my god
okay sorry
a lot of these people know my work going
back for five years or something so
raphael says i know you love the example
of m-a-d-d so that's mothers against
drunk driving so mother's gonna drink
trap that was season one eisel mozart
this is season two all right guys i'm i
ain't oh i've given up on a lot of my
own i've lost a lot of my own optimism a
lot of my hope for the future you know
that's
but anyway so he's saying referring to
my videos some years ago quote i know
you love the example of mothers against
drunk driving is a good example but can
we also say the approach of going into
schools talk about veganism was a
failure so
gary yourofsky it all failed
it all
failed
every single strategy selling out and
compromising failed like you know
someone like unnatural vegan failed uh
people with ethical treatment of animals
failed organizations with multi-million
dollar budgets failed organizations that
were very principled failed
organizations that were purely
scientific failed organizations that
were religious failed organizations that
did quote unquote lifestyle activism
bikinis weight loss
enjoy your life failed
the green party failed everywhere
including including germany it's a total
failure every example across the board
and again you got to calibrate what you
mean by failure i mean compared to
communism it's a failure i mean compared
to buddhism it's a failure i mean
compared to the enormity of the
challenge of really dramatically having
an impact on global warming in the next
20 years it's a failure and that's why
i'm staying to you confident look at
that look back at the last 20 years look
in the next three years it's going to
keep on failing just really brief i
don't know
but like i i remember the dawn of the
internet in 1997.
i remember walking into the university
library i could describe even the angle
i was seeing this guy's screen at and i
got this pile of books and i'm reading
all this serious stuff about
philosophy and politics and political
history and i'm you know that's my
headspace
and i'm walking through the library and
i see this guy's computer screen and at
that time people people really went to
the library to do their email i i did i
i don't think i had internet at home at
that time you know it was internet was
more scarce and more expensive so
there's a guy
sitting at a computer
watching the brand new britney spears
video
from memory i would guess that was her
second album maybe was i don't know
britney spears catalog well but it
wasn't her it wasn't her very first hit
song it was a new song came out at that
time so i don't know 1998 or something
like that you know
that's the first time i'd seen video on
the internet ever that had seen a moving
picture like that as opposed to a still
picture and i looked and thought wow
that's the way the world has changed
like this dude which also i have some
contempt for him you're an adult man and
you want to see the new britney spears
video i don't know i don't know what's
up with you bro but you know um
you know when i was a child people were
excited for the new michael jackson
music video or actually a better example
was prince when prince came out with the
batman music video
and they would just sit
and watch tv for hours until it came on
because there's no way to look it up
people the kids would live like oh wow i
want to see the new prince music video
so i'm just going to sit here with the
tv on until it comes on because they
know it's a hit song they know sooner or
later it's gonna sit there for three
hours it's like okay now you go and you
look at the internet okay
i understand 20 years ago
it would have completely makes sense to
say hey hey
now it's different because now we have
the internet
i relate to that optimism on many
different levels because i lived through
this [ __ ] all right i remember when
people thought the best way to change
the world was to get a [ __ ] photocopy
machine and make a xena zine meeting a
low cost when you would write your ideas
on paper and you would photocopy them
and you'd [ __ ] distribute them around
anarchist bookstores and hope you could
change the world i remember when people
made vhs video cassettes and they would
buy what used to be called a
head-to-head reader
that's probably not the correct term but
that's what where i was that's what
people called it and slang they would
they would one of these head-to-head
duplicators which is like a
semi-professional way of copying vhs
cassettes i think it's not as good as
really making them in a factory and
you'd buy a bunch of blank
vhs cassettes and you'd copy this movie
you made and you distribute that around
to try to spread your ideas in the world
people did that with like jfk conspiracy
theories you know who killed jfk and you
know they couldn't get it on tv they'd
make this
vhs cassette and shared okay
so i totally understand how in the year
you see the way the internet has changed
from 1997 and 2000 and you say yeah you
know what that was before and this is
now well here we are in 2021 and we've
run out of time and we've run out of
optimism we
the vegans have run out of optimism so
we've run out of optimism how about
these other [ __ ]
how other how about the non-vegans in
the [ __ ] green party how about the
people who joined the green party
because they like duck hunting they're
trying to conserve the [ __ ] swamp so
there were enough ducks for them to
shoot me
how [ __ ] hopeless are those people
about curing global warming in the next
20 years
you hit me what do you say i was just
reading an article about the
siblings in germany
they took german chancellor angela
merkel's government to court over a
mission yeah
uh
okay what do you what do you think about
that what do you think about that
what do you think about doing that in
terms of
about
in order to
propound vegan values lawsuits i mean
like is that the future is that the only
thing that we can do
okay so look i think i have to give an
answer that's within the time scale
we're talking about in this video
a lawsuit that goes to supreme court
minimum five years
minimum
so i think it's irrelevant on this time
scale
like i'm just saying i think that that
question if you were asking me in 1985
or 1995
you know how about 100 years of lawsuits
yeah
but no i mean i think it's a joke and i
really feel that if someone was just
getting older i'm in my mid-40s
you got 10 years to go to court
now
the other side of it is it's different
in every country i'd like to sit here
and cynically say that i don't know any
examples of lawsuits like that trying to
hold the government to its theoretical
responsibilities that i don't know any
examples that made a difference it's
totally different in taiwan
than it is in ireland or
america or what have you i do know i
mean as someone who does political
science i do know examples that have
made a difference but in terms of what
you can do in
in 20 years i don't believe in it
and if that's what we're talking about
if you want to save the world in 20
years you won't have a dramatic impact
on global warming in 20 years i don't
think that could make the difference and
i think it's slow compared to i mean i
know it's a surreal example but it's
viable in one town
just taking over the government in one
small town
and at the city hall level making
leather shoes illegal having one town
that brutally enforces that principle
and then the impact that makes you know
what i mean because i've seen the extent
to which
court cases that take on these things in
principle
many times they make too little
difference for the sacrifice and time
money
do you not feel the woman you you can
tell me you may know
i'm you know i mean
this is not something that i'm saying
i'm absolutely right about what i'm
saying if we're talking about the next
any years taking
a leader
or to suing suing them for important
rights because the idea is that
angela merkel knew about this for so
many years if she continued to let
uh
fossil fossil fuel burning industry
continue in germany uh producing cars
and now daimler has announced that they
will only make electric cars after 2030.
so like we're willing to like you know
make these huge sacrifices change a
complete industry into you know from uh
you know
combustible engine to electric cars but
we aren't willing to make any kind of
make any lawsuits you know suing
somebody okay
so so
melissa's raising an interesting
question this is not one i really want
to talk about today do you remember my
old videos babe where i talked about
smoking
so you may not know but there was a hit
movie
um
starring that scientologist [ __ ] as
the lead actor the guy who was in
saturday night fever now the guy was the
you know saturday fever you know
someone in the audience who is the lead
act
i was going to ask alexa alexa who is
john travolta
alexa stop
john joseph
anyway there was a movie starring john
travolta about a lawsuit against the
tobacco industry
um
[Music]
you know
basically when you look at the chart of
how many cigarettes are consumed
per capita or in total for society
it has declined very little in the last
30 years it's it's remarkable how little
yeah right yes
so i just mentioned briefly guys there's
more than way to measure the prevalence
of cigarette smoking very commonly
people are just asked verbally did you
smoke cigarettes this week or something
like a question but if you look at the
number of cigarettes that are actually
being sold it's a much more reliable
indication just like the total number of
tons of tobacco that they're produced
and consumed it's remarkable how little
it has declined
um
you know so look you know let me ask you
so there's this particular drama and
it's not the only one there have been
many lawsuits against the tobacco
industry
um
what has been their impact on a time
scale of 20 years in terms of really
impacting the culture and reality of
smoking my my answer is too little too
late now i do think so i've said this in
many videos i think one of the forms of
cultural change is stigma
right and i said this like you know
if you're a father
and your daughter brings home her new
boyfriend to introduce you and he's
smoking a cigarette how do you judge him
how do you how do you just say to
someone no i won't let my daughter marry
someone who smokes cigarettes or no how
can you possibly you know where you just
regard this as a red flag you regard
this as a serious judgment on their
character i do think that is much more
effective and more important than those
lawsuits against the the tobacco
industry so you can get into a
discussion
do i think
lawsuits make zero difference no i'm not
claiming that but i'm saying we're
talking about a time scale of 20 years
looking back at the last 20 years we had
the next 20 years you can call that 40
years
to me most of that stuff no matter how
much hollywood tries to glamorize it
it's a joke there's another hit movie
aaron brockovich and so on you know
there are these many attempts to
dramatize the legal system that way
but i've got to say this is this is
trivial
compared to the the type of cultural
change we're talking about what what
isn't trivial okay look at the fall of
the roman empire all right you went from
having a
society that worshiped a polytheistic
you know
system of gods based in ancient rome you
know
um
to the monotheistic system of
christianity you know you
the society was totally transformed and
that led to the dark ages you know it
totally abolished democracy and
republicanism and went into a period of
christian kingships total unbelievable
indescribable transformation of society
accomplished in just a few generations i
mean you can debate how long that that
took you know
that's not trivial that's the kind of
scale of transformation we're talking
about now of course i regard that as a
transformation for the worse overall i
don't think christianity improved
uh europe how about islam
so the area that's now afghanistan used
to be buddhist it was buddhist and there
were a variety of local
animistic cults
so buddhism is normally quite friendly
to just diverse superstitions
local
gods and deities okay well it was
transformed to
an extremely uncompromising form of
islam indonesia same comment indonesia
used to be mahayana buddhist became a
muslim society everything changed
um
total
revision
total cultural transformation that's
what we're talking about
so you know no offense but if you want
to talk to me about erin brockovich and
her lawsuit all right forget the john
travolta case but it was one of these
one of these glamorized lawsuits
oh [ __ ] i'm you know what i'm screwing
up it's not john travolta it was the guy
who was in [ __ ] gladiator
do you remember him russell crowe
it was a russell crowe movie about the
series i'm sorry screwed up john
travolta george voted was in another
movie like that but there was there was
another movie which you know russell
crowe was in a movie about suing the
tobacco ministry you know but if you
want to talk to me about a lawsuit
against the tobacco industry or a
lawsuit against the meat industry or a
lawsuit against the german government to
me on that scale the scale of the
challenge and the amount of time we're
talking about to me that's a [ __ ]
joke
right
and
go on
yes
you're a critic of yes
right you know right
but that's what happens when you're
thinking of short term right
i know i know but this video is
addressed to exactly that hopeless
scenario it's addressed to what's
possible in the next 20 years given what
happened in the last 20 years that's
what i'm trying to get real about in
this video
right and of course i don't think
terrorism is the answer i think that
would be a total [ __ ] joke too
i'm just being real with you i mean
nobody nobody in the audience has
proposed it nobody has nobody said oh
well therefore terrorism would make a
difference no
yeah
again compared to my my example of
banning leather shoes and really
unfortunately of course
veganism is not
offering an afterlife like any religion
it's not offering what an organization
oh oh but let's let's be real too it's
not even argue it's not even offering
what irish terrorism used to offer
[ __ ] irish separatism or irish
nationalism and that that
inspired terrorism for decades yeah
you know
no
no no there's nothing to to offer and
it's never going to make the change
people want to accomplish i mean like
so again that calibrates it so i i used
to live in the united kingdom i was in
scotland more than england but i had
experience both in scholarly i remember
when there were warnings above basically
every trash can about bomb threats
because one of the ways the irish used
to bomb things was leaving a bomb and a
public uh garbage bin
so just mentioned unlike the muslims the
the the irish were normally trying to
have a very small number of casualties
and not at all they're trying to disrupt
things without killing people that's
just their their method generally
speaking but they were extremely
disruptive you can imagine the whole
city of london gets shut down because of
a bunch of bombs going off i remember
the level of terror and terrorism you
know in england that time
you know there's there is absolutely no
way veganism could win if it started
carrying out that level of terrorism and
of course i also think it shouldn't win
that way i don't think it's immoral but
i
totally believe it would be ineffective
or counterproductive it's only you know
i don't think you can like i really do
not think you can motivate people to do
the right thing because it's the right
thing to do
through terrorism i don't
you know and to me that's nothing like
even my proposal of making shoes illegal
they're willing to go to jail to do
something totally counterproductive and
pointless right right right right right
no i know that's not
i i i tend to agree with you okay well
all right we have a hilariously
appropriate commenter brandon asks what
if logan paul went full-on vegan
so but look you know this is the scent
the reason i quote this now is as as
silly as that is of course i think that
would have more of a positive impact
than terrorism i mean terrorism it's
very obvious
what's bad about it how it's going to
make the situation worse but i mean
that's the sense in which this kind of
meaningless lifestyle activism seems
positive it's because you're comparing
it to the complete horseshit of what of
the forms of violence that vegans have
indulged in in the past
well no i think you can measure it i
think you can measure the outcomes too i
mean you know look guys has anyone
attempted a quantitative evaluation of
the impact of tana mongeau tana mongeau
was vegan
and promoted veganism to millions of
people i think it was just one or two
years wasn't for that long you could do
a quantitative study how many people are
vegan today because tana mongeau became
vegan okay and now you can do a [ __ ]
analysis of the last time vegans used a
bomb
to destroy a fur shop because that
shit's real there's one guy on youtube
and he went to jail for that he was
involved in a bomb plot they set off
bombs in a fur you know fur coat store
you know well guess what as as pathetic
as trivial as the positive outcomes of
logan paul or tana mongeau being vegan
may may seem they compare positively to
that that's that's such a total loss but
i'm sorry but keep on trying i'm trying
to calibrate this on a different level
i'm talking about in the next 50 years
having a transformation culturally and
politically so dramatic that it's going
to have an impact on global warming
and then all this stuff is a [ __ ]
joke i mean
then tana mongeau is a drop in the
bucket she's a drop in the ocean this is
nothing
yeah
do you think people really appreciated
the environment and do you think they
would have any more chance of
appreciating it given that it is
getting worse for people and and
um
the sacrifices that are entailed with
adopting a vegan diet okay look i'm
gonna answer for myself i would feel
totally differently about veganism if
what if we lived on a planet where the
total population of the planet was five
hundred thousand was half a million
people
okay so i don't know if you guys know
this if there were only half a million
people on planet earth we could all
drive
ferraris and it wouldn't [ __ ] matter
for the environment we could have half a
million people driving the most
polluting cars just the total impact on
the environment when the global
population is only half a million
you know what i mean you uh
you know just the total amount of lumber
we'd require is so much less the total
amount of farming the total impact of
everything we're doing would be so much
dramatically alexa what's the population
of planet earth
okay so my robot assistant tells me
we're now at 7.7 billion
we call it 8 billion and wrong numbers
so the difference between
uh
half of what was i saying was i say half
a million
sorry it's it's it's unimaginable so if
we had half a million people on the
whole planet half a million homo sapiens
think about how you know we there'd be
no problem with the number of uh
dolphins and whales and elephants
there'd be plenty of habitat for
elephants that would be you know so you
can imagine yourself i mean frankly i
know it's gonna sound ridiculous it
doesn't really matter if you say half a
million or half a billion
you know within that range of humans on
earth half a million
all the way up to half a billion our
environmental impact would be so little
that we could sit here and talk about
veganism in a totally different way and
we'd be in a position to say
hypothetically and pragmatically look
this culture of everyone eating meat
every day can go on forever but it
shouldn't
that would be our position and we'd be
looking at a much more long-term
strategy of saying look over the next
500 years how can we advocate this you
know ethical cause and blah blah blah
okay well that's not the [ __ ]
situation we're in we're in a situation
of eight billion people who are
dramatically less poor today than they
were
20 years ago
and
they aren't slaves yeah right the end of
slavery
increased yeah labor rights and
everything else things things have
improved in all these ways okay well
guess what
more people with more money means more
of them are going to have children you
know more birth i mean africa is the
most dramatic example but it's true
globally even look at the way
afghanistan the population increased
dramatically under american domination
compared to what it was under the
taliban before
you know okay more people having more
babies owning more cars
you know buying more products that are
delivered to them in airplanes and with
trucks and i think all everything i buy
gets delivered to me by an airplane
everything i buy off the internet you
know we live on an island things are if
it doesn't come by airplane it comes by
an amazing combination of you know
truck and and boat and what have you you
know you know you have more people
eating more meat more per capita
that's the reality of what we're of what
we're living through so we're in a
situation where the arguments of a
veganism are in a situation where we say
look
um
and guys i remember the old days when
people used to say oh well we could have
a plague
just had a plague guys
all right do you think
do you think we're gonna cut the world's
population in half through a plague you
just saw
alexa what's the total number of people
who have died from
coronavirus might answer your question
according to johns hopkins as of today
september 28 2021 there are 232 million
cases of coping 19 worldwide okay
alexa stop
okay anyway so we're past four million
deaths
uh due to the plague of uh
2019-2020 so
yeah so out of eight billion people
four million died
what do you what do you think so you
know anyway i'm just saying so it does
it contextualize the whole discussion
very differently where instead we're
looking at this and saying
um this culture of
eating meat
can't
continue um
and yet it it does and yet it will and
yet nobody cares
and yet you know i was coming on with so
much passion back when i was a student
in kunming you remember those days you
used to watch me i was coming on so
passionately and saying look the future
of the vegan vegan movement is you let's
get organized let's make things happen
for years i came on that way and saying
who's with me hit me up let's make this
happen
not
one person not
one
women got in touch with me want to have
sex with me you know money fame power
respect sex you know okay well you know
what when you've had your orgasm
like what now guys
you know bangkok is going to be
underwater you know uh
[ __ ] athens can be underwater too you
know i mean i'm sorry but you know we're
going to lose some of the world's great
heritage you're going to be telling your
grandchildren oh yeah athens was this
really important place in the history of
democracy i saw it before was underwater
oh you can still go scuba diving there
um you know i mean you know what what is
you know what is the future we're
presuming you know i'm so flattered that
you want to [ __ ] me but you know what
about the future of planet earth and you
know again i'm sorry this particular
video is not especially about the
the animals the suffering of the animals
but i do care about the suffering of the
animals i do care that literally
billions of pigs are living and dying on
a concrete floor in a steel cage and
sometimes in a wooden crate you know
this unspeakable
uh you know just ethical horror for no
good reason that's going on and on
and uh
all right brendan williams sister
this is not what this video is about but
brandon williams says smoking is twice
as prevalent today as it was 10 years
ago so i've got to put on my political
science hat here and say brandon the
main thing that changed is that we
started getting statistics from eastern
europe we started getting statistics in
places like russia ukraine poland
uh hungary etc so i i don't believe you
i'm sorry this is my old field i'm not
in that field anymore but i used to look
at you know really crunch the numbers
for health science research now also i
think china is another example i think
probably the statistics we got from
china 20 years ago were just [ __ ]
they were communist party fraud or
something but a big part of what's
changed is just um where we get
statistics from large parts of africa
and south america too
we just haven't had statistics so long
so i just say part of what's changing is
that we know how much people are smoking
in more of these places around the world
but uh greece
italy
all of eastern europe there are huge
parts where smoking is massively
prevalent today
and then you know there are there are
some countries like france where i'm
sorry it's been ages since i looked but
in france smoking had declined but not
enough you know it declined but it
declined a little bit you know so yes
globally normally when you're looking at
these things you are looking at in total
terms and you know by the way um
you just look at the new york stock
exchange
look at uh look at how well still this
day american tobacco producers are and
they they export around the world they
don't just sell tobacco um this is
consistently over time it's the single
most profitable industry in the united
states of america like if you're
generalizing over the last century or
last 50 years but still today those are
stocks you can make a lot of money out
of and they're always included in the
best performing stock list you know so
yeah sorry going what exactly i was just
going to say i think you're right
and right now yeah
it's
definitely totally acceptable to eat
meat
you will be you will not be a social
alcoholic if anything you're a social
outcast
right so what about hobich on on joe
rogan um you remember the chick uh
she she was vegan for like 10 years
her father is a [ __ ] country western
singer
yeah ho [ __ ] yeah
miley cyrus who is a whole [ __ ] jesus
christ our contempt for miley cyrus i
have miley cyrus i have no respect for
you as a creative artist let me tell you
but you know um
i think the way miley cyrus was received
when she gave up veganism after
preaching it for years and then just
became a total hypocrite
and everyone embraces that you know i
think that shows the reality of stigma
and counter stigma you know what i'm
saying that
you know people actually regarded very
positively even when it makes you
specifically you into a hypocrite you
know that's still celebrated and
impressive she didn't have any kind of
sophisticated excuse i mean anyone could
look at that and say you're just a
[ __ ] idiot and a hypocrite and you've
been lying to us for all these years you
know there's all kinds of reasons other
than veganism to be mad at miley cyrus
for being ex-vegan and for revealing it
in the way she did on the joe rogan
podcast and everyone
including joe rogan warmly embrace it so
that's where we're at so we are not
remotely at the point where you know if
a girlfriend pardon me if a young woman
brings home her boyfriend to meet her
parents so they come as a couple
girlfriend and boyfriend where the
father says you eat meat like [ __ ] you
can't be serious you can't marry this
guy you can't be with who would want to
be with a guy awaits me
obviously people will regard cocaine
that way they regard heroin that way
no no parent is going to say well
he's a heroin addict now but he'll quit
once the marriage gets rolling once you
guys settle down settle down rent an
apartment he'll be fine he'll straighten
out now some people do in reality some
people do but no one would take an
optimistic view of that right my point
is there would be stigma whether it's
rational or irrational say this guy
smokes cigarettes this guy uses heroin
whatever his story is say there's no way
you're marrying my daughter there's no
way i'll approve of this marriage
so no
stigma is going the other way or you are
the target of suspicion and hatred for
being vegan rather than rather vice
versa yeah for me
a moment like miley cyrus revealing that
she's not vegan and in a major sense
never was vegan you know that shows that
now the the stupid stunt guy too
uh
steve oh so steve oh it was revealed
that he never was vegan
you know like literally like he never
stopped you mean uh the boxer uh
heavyweight champion in the world had a
nintendo game
uh named after him mike tyson
mike tyson never was vegan he continued
eating meat during all the years when he
was actively promoted as a symbol of the
vegan movement you know
where where is the where's the stigma
where are the consequences you know so
again i mean you know uh this shows that
the stigma is working against us not for
us uh in reality in 2021. and if your
perspective is that we don't have 500
years
if you're talking about the next 50
years the next 20 years what's going to
happen guys we're we're running out of
time
and look so it may seem like a joke to
you guys that i even talk about people
like nina and miranda who do you want me
to talk about
who are the most important leaders in
the vegan movement during my lifetime
okay
it's pathetic freely durianrider nina
and rita these were the people in a
position to make a difference so this is
who i've addressed my critiques to this
these are the people i've reached out to
trying to collaborate and trying to
improve and trying to work for a better
future for the vegan movement and these
are the people i've criticized for what
they were doing wrong nina and miranda
did commercials for taco bell directly
promoting meat and chicken tacos well
okay you know what
you know
that's something wrong for a leader in
the vegan movement you know but these
are people and by the way in case you
know nina miranda they're important and
powerful entirely because of who their
father was their father was a wealthy
person who organized the the veg fest in
los angeles and he had he had a powerful
internet presence behind him as well as
a real institutional presence for that
he built up over decades so it's not any
talent or hard work on their part that
made them make them important but you
know
my point is whether you see my reaching
out to people positively or am i
reaching out to them negatively like
criticizing them as being pathetically
misdirected what do you do you think i
have the delusion that gary francione is
going to make any [ __ ] difference in
the next 20 years
you know you can look at the difference
he made in the last 20 years but he is a
burnt match all right whatever he
whatever difference he could have made
he's already made it and his chapter in
the history of this movement is now over
i've closed the book on that i made
videos they weren't mean videos but i
made videos saying well
that's the end of that chapter let's
let's analyze it let's talk about what
we're right what went wrong but that's
over
so you know again like what do you think
who are my contemporaries you think i
look up to james aspie do you think i do
you think i could possibly sit here in
this video and say to you well don't
worry in the next 20 years james aspie
is gonna save planet earth are you
[ __ ] kidding
you know
do you think i sit around saying wow i i
wake up in the morning and i try to be
more like james aspie i have nobody to
look up to i have nobody to look up to
at the at the intellectual deep end i
have nobody look up to you at the at the
shallow end nobody i have no
contemporaries i have no colleagues i
have nobody writing to me trying to do
something positive and i never have
not at any stage of the history of this
of this movement of whatever my eight
years
you know being uh being a voice of the
movement so you know i
you know and when i
i mean you can scale that up
i think that's the reality for a whole
lot of other people too
and look what the [ __ ] i'm not gonna
disclose anything we talked about
privately the last time i talked to
aaron janus what do you think we talked
about
so melissa you heard the whole
conversation did aaron janus say one
[ __ ] thing to me about accomplish
something for the vegan movement in the
next five years next 20 years was there
any discussion about what we were going
to do positively what we were going to
get organ
nothing now we did talk about all kinds
of personal life stuff what's going on
her personal life what's going on my
personal life we talked about the last
time we saw each other face to face we
we talked and
it was it was a very memorable
conversation all right but like if you
think the last time i talked to aaron
janice she said one word to me about
what she was gonna accomplish or what i
was gonna accomplish or what we could do
together
like even on the level of encouragement
not one word all right the last time i
talked to henya mania the last time i
talked to jason posino or something you
know what i mean like sorry all these
people
yeah i mean it's hennya is henya still
alive yeah i mean you know in 2021. so
you know
the last time i communicated indirectly
with nina and miranda though how about
the last time i talked to [ __ ] a
natural vegan
sorry way back we used to talk you know
what i mean we've communicated
indirectly since then so look and if you
think it's a joke these are the most
influential people in the movement i
could communicate with why do you think
i talked to henya i was talking to her
because i care about the future why do
you think i was talking to a natural
vegan or any of the rest i was reaching
out to those people you know
try to make something happen
and now it's over
and
and again sorry i'm sorry to keep
playing this card but even if there is
another
freely
right it's never it's never going to
have the impact of the last freely even
if there's another oprah winfrey special
even if there is another book that's a
hit like the skinny [ __ ] you know or
what's his name dr greger's how not to
die
do you think dr greger's next book is
gonna have the same impact as how not
today it's impossible it can't have a
greater impact it could only have a
lesser impact there are there are
diminishing returns no matter how big
the next hit book of that kind is
everyone's heard it before oh being
vegan reduces the rate of heart attack
oh okay yeah i already knew that well
you know if you thought if you thought
optimistically it was going to transform
the world that once people
become aware that being a vegan lowers
your chances of getting a heart attack
well okay look back at the last 20 years
because that is a burnt match
like that that the potential the
positive potential that had has been
spent
it's done and gone
okay so a
question from raphael i'm sorry i don't
know how long ago you wrote this
um
question is how do you get governments
to get on board with that idea let me
tell you something raphael there are
some countries in the world where
democracy is by the people of the people
for the people okay
you ever heard of navoo what is it navu
indiana
and naboo illinois
you can go to a ghost town and you can
intentionally relocate a thousand vegans
there a town where now they have 28
people in there i even see that in
california there are towns in california
where they have population 28 you know
what i mean and if you want to you can
literally take over a town where people
who are supporters of your movement are
the majority of people living there now
let's just say greater los angeles area
um
you could accomplish that
like people who all have employment in
the greater l.a area and probably most
of them are driving an hour to work
anyway you could accomplish that just by
having them relocate within l.a we say
okay all of us are going to move to
the small town of 29 palms as a small
town in southern california you know but
whatever it is okay we're all going to
move there and then we are going to
elect the mayor because we are the
democracy or with a plurality of people
we're more than 30 of the population
here and in this one place at this one
time we're going to take a stand and
we're going to start legislating because
we're going to you know we're going to
be the people
we're going to have government by the
people of the people for the people we
are going to be the people now does that
sound like an extraordinary sacrifice to
you i could do that within london
england too there are enough vegans in
the greater london area that if they all
relocate to one neighborhood
you have them all in one [ __ ]
apartment building probably you know
what i mean you probably could you know
but you just have them they keep the
their same jobs but they're they're
moving to to the same borough instead of
being spread out all over the place that
would give you enough of a democratic
mass to to make something happen berlin
could probably do it too there probably
could be a place we could strategically
okay now if that sounds like too great a
sacrifice compare it to all the things
vegans have done in the last 20 years
and all the things we could do in the
next 20 years and can and ask yourself
you know
does it matter if bangkok is underwater
or not does it matter if we keep on with
these completely ridiculous
attempts at dealing with climate change
that can only fail you know so you know
it may sound like a big sacrifice but
compared to things vegans are already
doing it's not that big a sacrifice and
you could actually you could actually
have some outcomes you could actually
have some impact you know
you could basically make gerrymandering
work for you
by relocating the voters you need to
make political change possible on that
small scale symbolically
well yeah but
if you're actually playing to win if you
actually want to control the mayor's
office
you know it's a different and
i know examples of religious groups that
did that or tried to do that you know
there are towns where everyone's a
mormon where the mormon church controls
city government and so on and there are
real advantages that you can imagine
where you know religions that would be a
powerless minority instead locally
become powerful
you know
now look i'm not saying that's
that's not i'm not saying that's the
best thing you can do but i'm saying
it's better
than the other horseshit that's on the
table right now and if we're talking
about a 20-year time frame
you know what do you want to do going to
prison won't help guys
won't it's not going to help that's what
you know
so many other stupid vegan groups have
criticized
hmm
so i'm just reading your your comments
and questions guys
so raphael says
that verse comes from raphael raphael
says quote the only way veganism will
make an impact is if there are vegan
corporations that can influence
political decisions through lobbying
no corporations make money corporations
do things to make money they're totally
irrelevant the discussion we're having
that's it okay nestle corporation
makes soy milk because they make money
nestle corporation makes vegan chocolate
bars and they also make non-vegan
chocolate bars because they'll do
whatever makes money this is it's
irrelevant it's completely irrelevant
and the the the belief that veganism
would basically create a bunch of elon
musk like capitalist impresarios who
would save the world is it ludicrous
fantasy
okay
what do you how about microsoft
were you joking you know it's just
ridiculous so you know the the charity
that vegan corporations can do uh
especially if you talk about the next 20
years 20-year time frame
this is a this is a joke
you know so sorry this is a joke do you
want to give me the lekis picks up on
this and says quote once the mega
corporations like nestle are on board
with veganism they were lobbying for it
were you born yesterday homie i mean i'm
sorry you know
nestle corporation is not charity okay
that's it and what we're talking about
it's a charity and what you're talking
about here i'm just saying it doesn't
make money it loses money and i don't i
don't mean it's a charity in some other
sense i just mean specifically this is
about doing the right thing because
that's the right way to do and look when
you look back at cultural
transformations of this
significance is that is that what
happened with slavery is that how
slavery got abolished well
once major corporations start rejecting
slavery and paying fair wages to black
people that'll liberate black people no
what do you think there's going to be
the the prophet motive is going to
abolish slavery no
women should vote oh great they should
have the right to vote
because they think they're going to make
more money out of women having to write
the book and if you look at really
sudden cultural change like you know the
end the fall of the roman empire
christianity replacing the religion of
ancient rome islam replacing buddhism in
in central asia um i'm sorry there's
just no there's no comparison uh so i
you know i don't know what the basis for
this uh
frankly utopian uh dream is that that
enlightened corporations will lead this
transformation hey how how have
corporations abolished alcohol
how have corporations abolished
cigarettes
how about the impact of corporate i mean
joking i mean you know
oh
oh so didn't hear that the rapper waka
flocka flame is also ex-vegan now so
there you go
i never felt he was really vegan i just
heard what he said in his own words that
sounds milk he was just messing around
i i also can't remember last time i
heard anyone playing a song by that guy
he used to appear on reality tv a lot
i don't even know this is brandon
williams says that mark fisher committed
suicide never heard
so again do you want to give him the
kiss says this is just reiterating the
same point i've already responded to
quote why does veganism need a cult
leader to be successful can it not
steadily increase through industry
pressure and market forces
how about sewage treatment
i live in a city still today that dumps
untreated sewage directly into the ocean
why don't you just let market forces
solve the problem
because there's no way to turn a [ __ ]
profit on doing the right thing because
it's the right thing to do
the right thing to do
is not to dump human turds into the
ocean okay but to take human sewage and
put it through a complex expensive
energy intensive series of chemical
treatments
so that it has less of an impact on fish
oh and
those are run by fossil fuel burning
power plants so that's bad so let's get
rid of that and continue you can't turn
a profit on it okay i can make a movie i
can show that movie in a movie theater
and people pay for a ticket to see the
movie so a movie can be profitable the
fish and the whales are not going to buy
a ticket to drink clean water they're
not going to pay you for a free market
mechanism to eliminate sewage to
eliminate water pollution polluting the
water is profitable ecology is never
profitable it's money losing
that's politics
you do it just because it's the right
thing to do whether you have a democracy
or a monarchy you make hard decisions
about doing the right to do hey let me
ask you something
afghanistan
do you think industry pressure and
market forces are going to provide
education for women think they're gonna
provide equal opportunity for women how
about the right to vote for women why
don't you just leave that up to [ __ ]
industry pressure and market forces are
you [ __ ] [ __ ]
i'm sorry but this is real politics this
is a real political struggle all right
and give whether you talk about slavery
or women's equality or
one religion struggling with another or
atheism struggling against all the
religions combined you know whatever set
of examples you you want to take no i
mean no what you can do for profit is
just fundamentally irrelevant i mean i'm
sorry it's irrelevant in the same sense
that i could say to you oh well what
about the lumber industry
isn't the lumber industry gonna solve no
they're going to keep on cutting down
trees and turning them into tables
what's your [ __ ] point do you think
they're just going to say oh well we as
the lumber industry we like we have to
oppose climate change which in a sense
they do because they need a planet to
grow trees and turn them into deaths
therefore
what are you [ __ ] kidding it's
ridiculous it's just ridiculous for the
same reason the lumber industry didn't
abolish slavery and didn't achieve equal
rights for women or anything else that's
all the lumbas lumber industry does is
make money out of trees
it's just as stupid as saying that drug
dealers are going to do it drug dealers
have plenty of money and leisure time
probably i mean you know if you're
making a lot of money out of dealing
cocaine why don't why don't the drug
dealers save the world it's just
ridiculous
if they do it's just irrelevant to drug
dealing you know
so i'm sorry i don't know i don't know
where you get this kind of basically
anarcho-capitalist pseudo-libertarian
um optimism that's somehow
for-profit economic activity is gonna is
gonna replace real politics but it can't
and it won't
and historically looking back it never
has worked there's no example you can
look at where you can say oh well
free free market forces you know
oh free market forces solve this problem
so we don't we don't have to
all right for some reason someone has
asked me to check my messages on patreon
so i will want to know
what's
significant about this but i will do so
incidentally patreon only allows you to
send me text eh you can't send a picture
just mentioning
when you think about it doesn't make a
lot of sense so i don't know why you
asked me to do that here i am on patreon
i got no i got no new messages on
patreon so
i i did check patreon but thanks
okay so here's here's another kind of
funny comparison melissa and i actually
talked about this earlier today a couple
hours ago before we came on camera um do
you want to give me the kiss says with
the current
a global epidemic we could stop air
travel basically overnight so so i'm
continuing with the quotation here quote
so i'm sure if the danger is great
enough mainstream will come out of
veganism real fast you're 110 wrong
you're 110
misinterpreting the evidence what the
epidemic shows is how little a
difference it makes to dramatically
reduce air travel so we just did it if
you think you can stop global warming by
dramatically reducing
the number of recreational flights
people take you just had a two-year
experiment in that guess what it adds up
to jack [ __ ]
it's trivial okay and no
sorry which you have to work with in
politics you have to work with
substitutions that are viable you cannot
substitute a boat for an airplane one
just is not a substitute for the other
but you can substitute
tofu
for steak you can substitute a vegan
alternative for meat you can you can eat
vegan chocolate bars instead of dairy
milk juggle bars you can but no i mean
the exact opposite is true now
sorry in the whole history of the world
um the single most dramatic reduction in
flights was after september 11th 2001
in terms of what is attainable by
reducing um uh flights by reducing uh
air traffic activity but obviously
during the last two years we still have
had deliveries by airplanes still had
mail for example some people we still
have them obviously those military
flights too and so on there are many
categories fights in the same but in
terms of recreational tourist avertable
air travel that was dramatically reduced
for uh
for two years and it's it's over so uh
in case you had any optimism about an
experiment at that time um
you've seen it coming on you know it's
irrelevant now again why would you take
from that
i mean i'm sorry i'm sorry this is an
incredibly stupid comment and let me
read it again quote with the epidemic we
could stop air travel basically
overnight comma so i am sure if the
danger is great enough mainstream will
come around to veganism real fast close
quote so what is the [ __ ] danger what
are you an idiot like what do you so
what are you gonna do like what
meat is going to become explosive like
what's the plan
you're going to nitroglycerin you know
the [ __ ] beef steak
exploding chicken eggs this is madness
there will never be enough danger people
will never defensively become vegan it's
just ridiculous
what do you think i mean
people know the health benefits they
know the health risks
it's game over for that that's a spent
match that's a burnt match in the last
20 years everyone learned about that
they either heard it from oprah winfrey
or they heard it from dr greger or
whatever it is known
so what what are you going to do
increase the level of danger posed by a
non-vegan net this is a joke
you know again so we just had the we
just had the elections in germany what
do you think another 500 years of people
voting for the green party and the green
party not even
caring in the slightest about you know
about a vegan diet and so on and same
with green party in canada green party
in canada
supports expanding the meat and dairy
industry they want the government to
support the meat and dairy industry more
it's complete madness i'm sure if you
look at new zealand it'll be the same
thing again
anyway
so levy i don't know i'm just saying
welcome to the crowd but i don't
remember telling you someone named levy
uh wrote it and said that mit
uh estimates overall total social
collapse in the year 2040.
sounds like an interesting study um
but still
you know i mean we're living with all
these things being known right
now and you know people are not because
people are becoming vegan at a
completely trivial rate just relative to
population growth
and relative to the fact that around the
whole world the amount of meat being
consumed per capita is increasing so by
the way guys the first time i made this
argument on the internet was on the
website vegan mind tricks so i had this
blog vegan mind you i can probably bring
it up and i said look you guys are all
kidding yourselves you're saying because
people were claiming on that uh
on that website on tumblr vegans were
uh claiming that they'd won
that the total amount of meat and dairy
being consumed was dropping dramatically
because veganism
i was like oh really here's the actual
chart of how much meat is being sold and
consumed in the united states of america
per capita here's the chart for how much
dairy like i got the actual you know
those are all things measured both by
the us government and by different
non-government agencies uh food and
agriculture organization
um
you know uh but but also just industry
organizations like the meat industry
itself wants to know how much meat
they're selling you know uh and i say no
no look actually even within the united
states of america it's growing
dramatically
uh and around the world it's going right
so here's here's one of them
uh i made a whole bunch of these
uh
but anyway yeah the chart showing
so this chart shows total tons of
poultry meat slaughtered in the usa
uh fao statistics total tons of beef
consumed in china you know but anyway
also with all kinds of other statistics
uh year by year showing how that was
increasing and it's not a minor increase
increasing dramatically with time so
okay you guys want to sit around and kid
yourselves that your that vegans are
winning you know it's not and let's be
clear the context of this video it's not
just that we are losing we lost we're
looking at game over we had 20 years
2001 to 2021 and we accomplished jack
[ __ ] and now we don't have another 20
years so what do you want to do
what do you want to do next and no
offense but none of you guys are going
to make it happen i don't have one a
[ __ ] person in my audience and i
don't even know one person
over youtube or over the internet it's
not like i can say to you oh well dr
greger is going to solve the problem oh
well none of you guys are gonna help but
i have so much [ __ ] faith in dr
greger no dr mcgregor is a multi-million
dollar budget and you might as well take
that money and shove it down the toilet
might as well flush it out into the
[ __ ] ocean it's a complete waste of
millions of dollars people with the
ethical treatment of animals have
millions of dollars you might as well
take that money and flush it down the
toilet no
there's no hope for anyone coming from
anyone and none of you are going to do
anything i'm not going to get one email
from you not one of you as a project
none of you are going to hire me there
was a time when i was asking there was
time when i was out there looking for a
job say look this is what i've got to
offer this is what i'm trying to do
you know
regardless of whether you hire me or i
hire you at this point i mean now i'm
older whether i'm a leader or a follower
or participant there is not not one
positive thing is going to come out of
this youtube video and guys this is game
over that's it
nice planet well it lasted
i mean you know i don't think the
planet's gonna cease to exist i think
western civilization as we know it is
gonna cease to exist i think bangkok is
gonna cease to exist and you know along
with bangkok a lot of other things are
gonna are gonna change
so you know
too bad
and
you know i mean the the fact that you
know what tiny community
is preaching veganism in los angeles
in taiwan in tel aviv israel
right the the the influence and impact
that has
compared to the number of people who are
eating more meat in africa in china even
in japan
in all of these places
taiwan it's so [ __ ] depressing taiwan
has the highest percentage of vegans of
anyone anywhere in the world
but guess what the meat eaters are
eating more meat per capita and there
are more of them so it's completely
eclipsed it's completely dwarfed they
have no ecological impact whatsoever
that's the most the most vegan society
on earth
is taiwan and by the way i have looked
up the statistics for israel i was
interested in israel the percentage of
people were vegan were they enough to
have any impact no and it's the same
thing uh so israel's population is
increasing
and also the amount of meat they eat per
capita has been increasing to both even
within israel israel is not a
poverty-stricken country it's a it's a
first it's a relatively wealthy country
um so but there too the mediating has
has gone up so the the the ecological
impact is nil
um
of of these of the world's most
successful vegan communities the world's
most successful vegan communities in the
context of this conversation or a total
failure okay and oh look guys oh i'm i'm
so [ __ ] happy
that uh tobias leonard published his
book
let's all give him a big clap on the
back oh when you did a book tour good
for you tobias oh and you got a famous
person to write the introduction your
book and you gotta you got a real good
publisher and that looks good in your
seat oh congratulations
you made a career out of selling out the
vegan movement you know i mean you made
a career out of collaborating with the
so-called reducetarians and making all
these excuses for eating meat dairy and
eggs and all this [ __ ] oh oh unnatural
vegan i'm so [ __ ] happy for you that
you encouraged people to just relax and
eat meat whenever they were out at a
restaurant so you wouldn't have the
stress of having to pick a vegan
restaurant she's done that i've seen it
on camera i'm so glad you were making
excuses for zoos to keep [ __ ]
elephants in captivity and for people to
continue eating eggs as long as they're
from backyard chickens and it's like oh
your whole [ __ ] career consists of
selling out veganism including she
encouraged people to just buy leather
shoes if you can't find vegan shoes that
are good enough for your [ __ ]
aesthetic and it's oh
i'm so glad you personally became
wealthy and famous well
too bad we don't have another 20 years
you know
i'm sorry and all this other [ __ ] it's
just a [ __ ] distraction brandon
williams
you're
what what's your head up your ass quote
sustainable vertical farming is the
answer are you [ __ ] are you 12 years
old
vertical farming farming without
sunshine
farming indoors
the only crop profitable enough to be
ecologically sustainable in vertical
farming is marijuana and even then only
in countries where it's illegal it's
better for the environment to grow weed
on the ground under sunlight are you
[ __ ] stupid you think you're going to
grow wheat in the future indoors do you
grow wheat to produce bread indoors do
you know anything about farming have you
have you worked on a farm have you done
research about the illegal and it's also
just a total [ __ ] distraction if you
actually believe vertical farming is
more efficient than horizontal form if
you believe that which is complete
horseshit
how much more efficient
you think it's 50 percent more efficient
do you think
if it were more efficient to grow wheat
indoors using vertical farming do you
think that's going to make more of a
difference
than the difference between people
taking a soybean and eating it directly
as opposed to growing the soybeans and
feeding them to cows and pigs
and for several months or several years
until they're whatever size you want
them to be some of the pigs only live
for three months or six months depends
on the breeding they pick but whether
you feed them to this animal for months
or years and then killing that animal
and eating its flesh
all right the the efficiency of human
beings directly eating beans instead of
feeding beans to ruminant animals and
then eating the flesh of those animals
okay you can't even measure it in
percentages this is thousands of
percentages more efficient okay so
thousands of you know it's
incomprehensible in that sense if you
think you could come up with a method of
farming indoors
using lamps
vertical farming that you you think you
can have dirt on a [ __ ] bookshelf
this is what it looks like i mean on
these vertical shelves and that's going
to be more efficient
than having earth outdoors
that's why you want to grow rice so you
want to grow wheat really so you want to
grow beans i mean you tell me you think
that's going to be more efficient than
horizontal farming is it five percent
more efficient you think you're going to
end global warming through like if you
can squeeze out five percent
out of that all right i'm going to say
this to you straight to your [ __ ]
face bro
even if you take the most flattering
example where you found a particular
food like
peaches
and you can make the case okay to do
high-end luxury peaches
we can get it five percent more
efficient with like indoor vertical
farming which is basically an incredibly
counterproductive form of greenhouse
farming it's a greenhouse without the
sun it's what it [ __ ] is okay
you say oh okay so we can actually make
these peaches just like marijuana like
it's possible to make some high-end
peaches using vertical farming instead
of horizontal farming the ecological
benefit of those most flattering
examples which there are [ __ ]
websites up there propounding that will
never compare
to the ecological difference of growing
peaches in a climate better suited to it
as opposed to a climate less suited to
it okay so the ecological difference you
can make
just by growing rice in a place that's
well suited to growing rice and growing
orchards in a place that's better suited
to grow just by reorganizing
like literally
reallocating farm labor you can have the
like you have a family that grows rice
forms so look we're going to move you on
to land that's better suited for rice
that is has a dramatically better impact
on everybody you can tell i've
researched this stuff
okay but anyway sorry i'm i'm just
getting intimidated with this because
the world is full of these [ __ ]
distractions
and it's all a joke the difference
between reusable plastic bags and
disposable plastic bags does not [ __ ]
matter
you're talking about one or two
percentage points at best and many of in
many cases it's worse to use the
reusable plastic bag you know the
disposable plastic bags are better for
the environment than the reusable ones
you know you get into these these
absurdities when you actually when you
actually do the math all of that is a
joke the only thing here that's not a
joke is veganism that's what's going to
have the dramatic impact we need but we
would need billions of people to do it
not even millions billions
we need a total transformation of our
culture and economy from the bottom to
the top how are you gonna make that
happen by talking about vertical farming
by talking about wind power like look i
like wind power but it's [ __ ] it
just doesn't add up okay like i like it
i'm a fan like i i even support it in a
sense like it's fun i like wind power
it's not gonna save the world it's just
not it's just not in the next 20 years
it's gonna it's gonna make a tiny impact
or none at all this is the reality of
wind power right you can't
and you know sorry i mean you can
actually visualize what it is you're
what it is you're replacing with wind
power you know like you say okay so this
is the this is our coal burning power
plant and now this is the entire coast
of scotland
being covered with wind turbines just to
make as much energy as that one
coal burning power plant like you can
actually visualize what it is you know
megawatt by megawatt you know go on
to like yeah and make these enormous
projects yes in order to do everything
other than yes right so that not one
drop of water is fed to cows that will
be slaughtered and fed to humans yeah
not one
soybean
is going to feed these animals that go
to feed human beings like end it you
know and animal agriculture it's an evil
horrible industry
i mean you know when the biggest joke of
all is that i mean animal agriculture
it doesn't happen it doesn't have to be
compared to some future technology to be
obsolete
it already is obsolete in precisely the
sense that nike air force ones
whatever nike air jordans that nike
sports shoes
are obsolete compared to non-leather
vegan nike shoes like the same company
so whether you use puma or nike or
adidas they'll make the same shoe they
make it in leather and they make it with
vegan materials and it's already
obsolete all we need to do is commit to
eliminating leather shoes that's it you
know and you can accomplish something
that's far more profound than all these
these kinds of distractions
um and again i can't i you know i like
wind power i like solar power i like it
but this is like recreational like this
is like talking about
playing golf or something you know what
i mean it's you're sorry but in terms of
if you really want to change the world
if you really have an impact in the next
20 years
and and guys i'm saying again you have
to look at the actual substitutions
involved um
having every so let's just say you pass
an amendment to the american
constitution and you say from now on
every single person moving between
europe and america just specifically
between the european union and the
united states of america they all must
be by boat not by airplane we're just
going to make it illegal we're going to
have america and the european union pad
ourselves we're going to have a massive
show of
of self-righteousness moral
self-righteousness and we're just going
to eliminate
airplane traffic between the united
states and europe so then
think about what happens next okay there
are substitutions this is the united
nations substitutability hypothesis so
now you have a huge construction boom
creating cruise ships cruise liners
what's the environmental impact of that
they're made out of steel okay what do
cruise ships burn
okay they
they well they either well okay they
actually today they burn the lowest
grade of gasoline so it does come out of
a hole in the ground the same way gas
and it goes into cars but they use a
different consistency of it this is not
worth getting into the details of why
that is okay but okay so you're gonna
have a huge boom in actually the demand
for the type of fuel that's used in the
low-grade fuel used in uh you know
long-haul uh cruise ships or whatever
okay and now every single one of those
people
instead of taking a flight it basically
takes one day it takes up your whole day
just getting to and from the airport the
actual flight takes a few hours right
okay now how many days
are you in transit and every single one
of those days you're eating
you're eating and you're pooing
right so just look at the environmental
impact of having thousands and thousands
of new cruise ships filled with
thousands and thousands of people who
are eating thousands of chickens and
cows and pigs
every day
right oh guess what the actual
environmental difference you can make
isn't replacing airplanes with boats
it's right now you could pass a law
saying all the boats we've got have to
be vegan you have a bigger impact
because of the nature of the
substitution and the enviro the
ecological impact of it right
so you know
and again i just say in numerous ways
there there are limits to the
substitutability of one technology for
the other especially talking about using
an inferior technology boats are
inferior to airplanes you know so you
know you're not talking about an upgrade
you're talking about a downgrade um but
there is you you are not downgrading
when you switch from a chocolate bar to
a vegan chocolate bar or you switch from
a basketball shoe to a vegan basketball
shoe
so i'm sorry but you know ultimately
what i'm railing against here is the
indifference of my own audience and my
own colleagues you know what are you
going to do
and i know i know look
the people who are out here pursuing
money fame power respect sex the people
who are putting on their bikini and
posing on instagram they're not the
worst people they're the best people
because they're trying to do something
instead of nothing you know and it's
vain and pathetic and counterproductive
and i still reach out to those people
because i think maybe well if you're
willing to have this level of commitment
maybe you're willing to do something
more maybe maybe there's something
positive we can we can do together you
know and nothing positive ever has
happened in my experience you know it's
it's a great shame but like i can't look
at james aspie and
james aspie and his and his wife or
something and say that these are the
worst people you know the the tragedy is
that they're the best they're the best
we've got what hope have you got guys
who if you're in my position who are you
going to work with who should i email
who should i phone today it's not going
to be tobias leonard and i've tried i
talked to that guy for years you know i
believe me i've reached out to everyone
i could possibly reach out to it's
okay here's a great question for you
guys what university should i study at
where is somewhere i can get a phd or i
can talk to someone with a phd who's
gonna help me there isn't one in the
whole [ __ ] world okay
if i want to be a scholar of buddhism
there were a few universities where i
can study buddhist philosophy and get a
phd in that they're all terrible it's a
joke you know if i want to become a
scholar of ancient greek where can i go
and study ancient greek oh well this
happens to be the single most important
thing for the future of planet earth and
it has to be it has to matter now it's
now or never okay it's now and in the
next 20 years or never and i've done the
research there is nowhere i can even get
a degree as a vegan nutritionist we did
all the research for that for us the two
of us as a couple going into nutrition
nutritional science becoming advocates
for veganism that way there was nowhere
i can even do culinary school i can do
vegan cuisine to become a vegan baker we
researched the [ __ ] out of that for
years and we actually spent many
thousands of dollars on it i lost years
of my life so i can't get ahead in the
nutrition side i can't get ahead in the
cuisine side and guess what i can't get
ahead and none of you can get ahead on
the political side which is what
ultimately [ __ ] matters there's no
department of political science or
anything like it where there are people
with phds making more people with phds
to actually get organized and solve the
problem and change the world now start
changing the world yesterday and it's
too late
okay i can't i can't open my own
university i can't start doing that
tomorrow all right the older generation
let us down the people who were doing
this [ __ ] in the last 20 years you know
so it's in that context i've got to say
nina and randa
they're terrible people but they're the
best people we've got in the [ __ ]
movement they're all we've got left who
who am i going to look at who am i going
to look to
james aspie and nina and randa
where's the hope for the future of the
movement and i mean now my dude i mean
today
who am i going to phone today what are
we going to do if we want to make sleep
in the next five years
there is nobody and there is nothing and
it is time to say game over
we lost
you had your chance did you enjoy the
last 20 years
what do you think is going to happen in
the next 20 years and what do you what
do you think are you going to be happy
to just be sitting there with your arms
crossed
smirking and saying i told you so
as the negative consequences of global
warming start to pile up
is that what you want to do do you want
to be right
because i've said this for years i don't
want to be right i want to win
all right i want to make this difference
in the world
you know what i'm saying and
and for years i said who's with me guess
what nobody's with me all right
including not vegan gains
not vegan gains
not aaron janus not henia mania like
obviously not someone like freely but
there were all kinds of intermediate
people all kinds of reasons people
who've appeared on my channel like
people i had a conversation with by
skype
none of them not one all right i am
alone homie and even if i don't know
everybody in this movement
trust me all of them know me i am
notorious
all of them know me
all right and it ain't hard to find me
and any of them could have talked to me
at any point you know
and you know
what what are you going to do say well
at least a natural vegan got rich
at least vegan gains got rich and famous
at least he got to sit and play video
games
for the last 20 years of his life
okay so it's no big deal but i just say
one of the reasons why i was so
passionate about vertical farming and
what [ __ ] it is is that most of the
arguments for vertical farming are based
on this old myth that local is beautiful
that locally grown food is what's good
for the environment and it's not okay
and that's why they talk about vertical
farming and that's why they want to in
general do greenhouse agriculture so
again i could make a whole video just
about this topic but to me it's [ __ ]
boring okay does it take a genius i
guess i'm a genius because i figured
this [ __ ] out when i was like 16 okay so
no offense but eliza and the other
people talking about this i'm sorry but
this is a [ __ ] joke shout out to ron
sims ron sims said quote as someone who
knows and talk to farmers vertical
farming is asinine at best okay so
here's the thing during my lifetime we
lived through a little period of history
called neoliberalism we lived through a
little period of history called
globalization and i heard all these
ecologists claiming that neoliberalism
is bad and globalization is bad that
it's bad for the environment that it's
bad ecologically and it was all
horseshit okay do you know what's bad
for the environment
people in south korea
trying to farm mangoes that can be more
efficiently grown in thailand now
there's no clear it's not impossible to
farm mangoes so you can you can't it's
now especially you can imagine if you
get into greenhouses and vertical
farming and advanced technology you can
basically farm anything anywhere right
but what's actually more efficient
economically and what's
vastly better for the environment is to
allow or encourage
each ecological niche to specialize in
producing the food they're best at for
the people of thailand to farm the foods
that their climate
their soil conditions etc can produce
better than anyone else in the world and
that for the people of south korea to
produce what they're best at and the
whole continent of africa right and that
through globalization actually the main
thing we've demonstrated is that we have
vastly excess
farming capacity on planet earth for our
needs so i don't know if you guys know
but like there is no economic need for
taiwan to produce rice at all they still
do but they could completely shut down
all rice farming in taiwan nobody needs
it we globally we produce way too much
rice and we're still doing it for
cultural reasons you know so they're all
kind of it's just
total global capacity for vegetables and
fruit and rice because it's vastly
inexcessive now if people come vegan
it's a joke because it's like ten to one
more because now we're not trying to
feed all these billions of cows and
chickens and pigs now we have way too
much capacity so no
the vertical farming it is complete
horseshit
and most of the arguments in its favor
are based on you first embracing the
delusion that the ethically optimal way
to live is by importing and exporting
nothing that you should just have an
isolated community which again for
religious reasons some people want to do
like some people are religious fanatics
they only want to eat food that's
produced locally and therefore you get
into uh you know greenhouses and
vertical front and all kinds of things
so that you can you can produce what you
need locally but no
you know um
in terms of the production of wheat i
used to live there naturally there were
gifted places that producing wheat i
mean to my i think the single greatest
in the world is probably um
uh the ukraine and the adjacent part of
russia you know there are some parts of
the world but which they have the right
climate and conditions to really grow
wheat incredibly efficiently now sorry
if i'm wrong i'm wrong i mean if you're
going to tell me now no the most
efficient place to grow weed is
afghanistan you know whatever
yeah right sure exactly yeah no no no
cotton is such a depressing example okay
so
no no but really really briefly cotton
is a great example the government of
australia
ruined their ecology
growing cotton in australia and it's the
australia is the driest con continent in
the world it's the worst place to grow
cotton but for political reasons they
made it happen no it is better for
ecology to allow cotton to be grown in
africa
in egypt egypt is part of africa
it's going to say africa specifically
egypt but anyway there are there are
places in the world that are naturally
gifted at growing cotton people in
australia should wear clothing made of
cotton from egypt egyptian cotton it's
the greatest cotton in the world you
know
and you know the nile river delta gets
all this rain and they can grow cotton
and it's wonderful so
cotton is one of the most extreme
examples so no the way you improve
ecological outcomes when we're talking
about a vegan planet it's a joke anyway
because we just have way too much
capacity is that you allow the people of
thailand to farm the things that
thailand farms the best that they have
the climate for you allow the people of
south korea to farm what they conform
the best you allow
cotton to be grown in the climate we're
caught in streets that is how you
achieve better ecological outcomes as
well as better
economic efficiency and the arguments
for vertical farming are a complete
[ __ ] joke compared to that even when
they can pick some very specific example
where they can get a five percent
advantage and in the vast majority of
examples it's much much worse
um
and you know sorry that a lot of that
efficiency has already been accomplished
simply through globalization simply
through neoliberalism simply through
people with no ecological pretensions
whatsoever just realizing hey we can
make money by taking mangoes from
thailand and sending them to europe you
know now but by the way if america
allowed that the the the orange
production of america would would you
know
change but america the government
prevents you from importing oranges from
the rest of the world so you know to
protect the orange industry so i mean
there is an issue of protectionism
versus free trade but no globalization
itself um achieves this so look look
i've alluded back to this this was part
of my process of challenging what most
left-wing people most green party people
most ecologists treat it as established
wisdom they treat it as establishes and
the best way to live is to only use
things that are manufactured locally and
only eat things that are produced
locally and believe me those same people
they make it so passionate to make the
argument that eating a backyard chicken
is ethically and ecologically superior
than a factory farmed chicken and
they're wrong if what you care about is
ecology it's way more efficient to
produce chicken meat in a factory than
in your backyard if what you care about
our ecological impacts guess what the
most efficient methods of producing meat
are the ones that have the least
negative impact of the environment and
the more traditional
homestead style of production it's much
much worse including the impacts on
water pollution yeah i'm not kidding not
kidding again even the united nations uh
so-called water water footprint reports
they go through all that stuff no no no
so the the country that is the most
efficient meat production in the world
is uh the netherlands
and it's the most horrible factory
farming
that's why it's like the whole country
is a [ __ ] city i mean it's a very
densely populated country obviously
obviously an exaggeration the
netherlands does have some countryside
but you know um and the worst the
countries with the worst environmental
impact per pound of meat produced are
the ones that are still using medieval
homesteading methods of production
anyway
all right so my heart goes out to you
people
richard says i assume this is richard in
atlanta
says quote i'm trying to pick up trash
around town with a bag and stick too so
look dude
i remember once i went to visit this
buddhist temple in northern laos laos
coziest place on earth just north of
thailand just south of unchina i went up
to this
buddhist temple that had been bombed
by an american aircraft during the war
there during the american war during the
vietnam war so this is a buddhist temple
it has a lot of meaning to me
right and it's just literally a ruin it
looks like an ancient ruin but it's not
it's a ruin from the 1960s or 1970s i
forget exactly when it was bombed uh but
you know bomb was dropped on it and it
burned and you get this drum these
dramatic ruins left by
the bombing you know and it's the
remains of a of a buddhist temple and i
went there and you know it's it's just a
moving experience for political reasons
and historical reasons whatever
and you know it was so
awful to see that it was completely
covered with discarded candy wrappers
and alcohol containers and uh emery
hassip containers there's a local
culture for you it's this
methamphetamine drink they have over
there uh yeah
uh they're it's their equivalent of an
energy drink but that stuff has some
kind of crazy drug in it it gets you
cranked up
you know
and i was so upset you know and i i went
and got actually bought a garbage can i
bought a plastic garbage can top and i
went around and was picking up this
stuff
you know do you think you can gather
your way out of global warming
do you think you can gather your way
from a society of meat eaters
to a society of vegans do you think you
can gather your way from a society of
drunkards to a society that values
sobriety
a society that gets drunken parties
at the ruins of a buddhist temple that
was bombed by the americans like
something i was visiting as a kind of
holy site and it was obvious just from
the beer and liquor containers you know
there was a lot of it was candy wrappers
too but you know
i mean it is pathetic
in the truest sense of the word right
but i relate to you wanting to go around
and pick up garbage
but no it's it's you're doing nothing
positive in a sense you you would be you
would have more of a positive effect
if you were filming people who were
dropping the garbage and then you were
taking them to court and charging them
and punishing them and charging them a
fine
or or filming them and harassing them
and putting it on youtube like that
would have more of a positive impact
because that would create awareness to
their responsibility you cleaning up
after other people who are dropping
their garbage it actually makes the
world a worse place right because then
those people get to keep dropping
garbage with impunity you're not
creating negative consequences for them
that's the saddest thing of all bro it's
the same with veganism right like me
being vegan
accomplishes less than if i can create
negative consequences for people eating
meat
if we can start enforcing fines or
deterrence
for people eating meat you know that's
what's really going to make the
difference right
so terfinator says welcome to the crowd
i don't remember you here nice to have
you i just don't remember talking to
somebody with his name before and i'd
remember your name terfinator says quote
you're literally the only realistic
vegan i bring this up in real life vegan
groups and i'm being quote unquote
negative dude i know
so no i mean thanks for coming i mean
it's so [ __ ] depressing and that
that's why again i was saying if you
guys can't relate like when i say that
the people wearing bikinis on instagram
support veganism they're not the worst
people they're some of the best go to a
local vegan meetup and you'll meet some
of the worst people and so i was talking
to a vegan activist about a week ago um
someone i don't know like we just met
and i said look you know dude i'm i'm
totally alone i don't know we've i don't
have one colleague
and she said back to me so i refer to
her i refer to women as dude uh but she
said back to me uh well
you know that must be on you like given
how famous you are like you know like
the fact that i don't have any
colleagues like it can't be on them it
has to be like it has to be my fault and
i you know i just said in a kind of
detached reflective was like well
if you include factors that are
unrelated to veganism like the fact that
i refuse to smoke marijuana
then in that sense it is on me because
like here sorry i live in the pacific
northwest the majority of vegans are
drug addicts
like literal drug addicts you know and
they pick up on it even if you don't
tell someone like hey i think you're a
scumbag because you smoke dope every day
and i don't they pick up on it right so
most vegans are drug addicts video game
addicts
you know they live totally meaningless
lives of self-indulgence
so yeah i mean those people the people
who are like athletes in bikinis
if you think they're the worst vegans
you haven't met that many vegans yet it
gets way worse and this is not even
getting into the terrorists people i
mean oh these are some of the worst
people in veganism people aren't into
terrorism but look you know i i don't
you know the people the people we've
talked to which is only a few people who
are like career vegans and food services
they're terrible people too
you know
yes oh god oh i don't want to talk about
it
it's a long time no so melissa just
reminded me yes oh that's such a telling
example
yeah so we met people who ran vegan
restaurants uh vegan bakeries and stuff
wow yeah that brings it back vividly
it's years ago now it's like four years
ago or three years ago instead
yeah
so you know
like it's one thing to say you're trying
to be a vegan activist despite meat
eaters or like despite your own parents
but the reality is you're trying to be a
vegan activist despite other vegans and
like this guy says like he says i'm the
only reasonable irrational vegan notes
and we try to raise any of the stuff at
vegan meetings other things
it's just reverberative
okay so guys i'm sorry to be so negative
so
james frederick i don't know if you're
still in the audience or not sometimes
people comment then they leave james
frederick i'm going to answer your
question
this statistic right now is in the new
york times a lot so i think that's where
you got it directly or indirectly a
bunch of newspapers going
so quote
90 of carbon emissions are produced by
the top 100
so you misquoted it the top 100 most
polluting companies in the world okay
and then he says voting is the only
solution close quote okay so just just
mentioning it it's you're you're
misrepresenting it's not that it's the
top 100 richest companies in the world
that make 90 of current missions it's
that it's the top 100 most polluting
company like the point is you can
you okay you could hypothetically
eliminate 90
of carbon emissions by just eliminating
100 companies that's the point that you
can make a list of the 100 most carbon
emitting companies okay
would you like to live on a planet with
no steel
is that what you want to do do you want
to live on a planet with no wood
like what the [ __ ] are we really talking
about here do you want to live on a
planet with no electricity
like it's just [ __ ] most of these
things there is no substitution
we don't have something better than
steel
that has less ecological impact right so
no i'm sorry the last part of what you
said is not stupid you said voting is
the only solution so i do understand you
were going on to make an important point
here you're saying we've got to have
democratic and political action i that
your last uh five words i totally uh
said this with voting is the only
solution well politics is the only
solution whether you're voting or not
you political organization right but
like the fantasy and it's a it's a
specifically left-wing fantasy that we
can blame the rich
in order to get out of
climate change and global warming like
the way to solve global warming is to
blame the rich the way to solve global
warming is to vilify facebook
the problem is facebook and amazon and
microsoft the problem is big
corporations dude this is such a
ludicrous self-serving left-wing fantasy
you know if you get rid of one company
that produces steel you're gonna either
you have another company that produces
steel or you have no steel like this is
this is just a joke
the difference we can make now
is veganism and i'm not kidding you
there is nothing else there is nothing
else that compares to it compared to
veganism solar power is a joke and i
like solar power it's cool why not it's
fun
if you own a house
put some solar panels on the roof good
for you but dude it's a [ __ ] joke
like if you think that's how we're going
to save the planet do the math but it's
a nice thing it's a great hobby it
really is like i'm cool with solar power
is better than skiing instead of
spending your money going on ski trips
spend your money on solar power cells
and for a lot of people it is actually
kind of fun hobby that they get into
solar power and micro wind generation
and stuff but bro
everything else is a joke and some of
these things they're actually like a
[ __ ]
they're actually like a destructive evil
joke like vertical farming fantasies or
something
you know
yeah yeah
yeah i don't want to get into it but
yeah you know yeah you know i agree with
you about that there's no point in
sitting there agreeing with each other
sure
so who do we vote for and what do we
vote for right yeah yeah yeah
well i think the person was just
indicating that the point was in
response to earlier talking about the
free market solving the problem and
saying no we have to vote but the the
problem with voting is that you're
presuming you're in a situation where
you already have the selection in front
of you you already have the options set
out for you like the point is if your
society has already gotten to the point
where you're going to have a referendum
on slavery really the struggle is
already over the problem is we're not
remotely close to that referendum we're
not going to have a referendum on
veganism and vote for it right if your
society has progressed to the point
where there's a referendum on whether or
not women should have the right to vote
even if they lose the referendum let's
say it's a 50-50 vote it's a close vote
you know the clock is ticking well look
guys we didn't get this referendum but
within 10 or 20 years women are going to
get the right to vote like really when
you've gotten to the point where there's
a referendum on it probably probably the
struggle is already over you know what i
mean
we are not remotely close to the point
where any decision related to veganism
is already on the table to be to be
voted for so that's part of the tragedy
but anyway i interpreted him saying that
just as just as meaning that we need a
real political struggle we can't rely on
the free market we can't rely on the
profit motive to
you know we're not going to earn our way
out of of global warming you know
so we had a further correction that at
the top 100 companies it's actually
they're responsible for 71
of
the emissions
you know i'm sure some of those will be
long-haul cargo ship companies too
probably they'll be in the top 100 but
what do you want you want to abolish
ships
evergreen might be on there
the international freight company
okay so this is a totally
well-intentioned comment in the audience
but i've got to point my finger at you
elliot davies says quote i also believe
that lobbying is important not just
voting but lobbying also i also believe
the lobbying is important and therefore
support agricultural fairness alliance
and nations rising close quote
okay elliot
okay
why don't you look back at what the
agricultural fairness alliance
accomplished in the last 20 years
and look ahead and you tell me
dead serious like if we were in the same
room face to face what the [ __ ] do you
think they were going to accomplish in
the next 20 years
nation rising i did a whole bunch of
videos about nationwide
why don't you look back at what they
accomplished just in the last five years
i don't think they existed for 20 years
and why don't you tell me what they're
going to accomplish in the next 20 years
and here's my answer to that question i
think they're going to accomplish less
than dr greger
less than people for the ethical
treatment of animals and less than oprah
winfrey
i think they're going to accomplish less
than freely the [ __ ] banana
girl
okay i would not say they're going to
accomplish
nothing
i think that in the next 20 years
that is such a [ __ ] joke what those
lobbying groups are going to accomplish
that you might as well take your money
and flush it down the toilet or better
why don't you start really asking
yourself what you can do with that money
if you say you support them i assume you
mean you give them money you know just
give them thumbs up on facebook which is
really gonna accomplish nothing we can
all sit here giving each other the
thumbs up on facebook and instagram
until
you know the water is up to our neck
okay
until you know the museum i was part of
planning in downtown bangkok has become
a scuba diving attraction
and you know the history of you know
athens greece is is underwater it's all
underwater it's underwater archaeology
you know what i'm saying
james james frederick asks i think
another well-intentioned question quote
what's wrong with self-indulgence isn't
the point of life
enjoyment
okay so
james
if that's your philosophy i have to ask
you the same thing i would ask a devout
muslim okay how many hours a day do you
devote to prayer
okay done praying you done praying now
you know what about every other [ __ ]
thing in life
how many hours do you have in a day how
many hours do you have in a week
all right some of it is going to be
devoted to self-intelligence some
okay
what are you going to tell me is nobody
interested in doing the right thing
because the right thing to do not even
when it is in the classical textbook
sense an existential threat nobody
you know
you know james you're going to hear more
about afghanistan
than you could possibly want to hear in
the next six months it's afghanistan's
going to be the news all the time
you know just
people are reflecting on the way the war
was lost okay do you want democracy
in afghanistan do you want women's
education
in afghanistan i do
what are you willing to do to get it
just an example i can give myriad
examples but that's one you're going to
be reminded of because even if you don't
want to hear it if you listen to any
news whatsoever reading news you're
going to hear about this [ __ ] that goes
down in afghanistan because you know the
whole western world is having a
self-pity party about it okay you want
to play some more video games you want
to play some more golf
you want to go parasailing
like what the [ __ ] you want to do okay
that's the problem with self-indulgence
all right
you know
you care about outcomes you care about
changing the
changing the world you can't change the
world through
self-indulgence and that i mean look
this brings us back to the basic premise
of the video that's what james aspie
tried to do that's the methodology for
vegan activism of james aspie and freely
the banana girl and durianrider they
thought that they could be so
self-indulgent that they would attract
legions of followers of other people who
wanted to be self-indulgent just like
them
and they transformed the world well
guess what you walk up to that magazine
rack in the grocery store and there are
300 different magazines offering you 300
different models of a life devoted to
self-indulgence and veganism is just one
more magazine it's one more competing
voice saying hey here's the way to enjoy
your life here's the way to be a
self-indulgent [ __ ] it doesn't change
anything all right people who want to
change the world and people who really
do
change the world they do have some
margin for self-indulgence in their
lives you know i mean i can just say
when i play with my own daughter when i
just sit and play with her if you play
with blocks with your own daughter if
you play with a pair of scissors
cutting pictures out of a magazine with
your own daughter you know i mean there
there have to be some number of hours of
the day
given to self-independent okay you done
you done now
does anyone anyone want to save the
planet anyone want to save more than a
billion animals anyone want to save
billions of human beings
no
not any motivation for anyone because
let me just think in the last six months
i've had zero emails of this kind and i
would have to really search my mind
in the whole eight years
it's very very close to zero i'm going
to be honest with you right now
in in eight years it's not zero but it's
so close to zero it's terrifying so
there's one i can remember
and it happened to be a good looking
woman but as far as i know that's not
why she was writing me there was one
good-looking woman who wrote to me
and i think she was in poland but if it
wasn't poland i'm sorry it was the
ukraine like maybe it was the ukraine it
was one of those countries this is years
ago that's why i can't remember that
clearly and she wrote to me and said
like you know we're really just at the
beginning of this struggle here in
eastern europe like people here are so
in favor of wearing fur coats and
they're still in favor of any meat and
she was trying and
and i said and she said something about
wanting to talk to me about like getting
organized and i wrote back and let me
tell you something i'm all in at that
stage of my life a couple years ago i
can move to poland
i don't give a [ __ ] bro look i'm going
to take risks in life i'm someone who
will move to cambodia
i don't give a [ __ ] i am all in i can go
and visit poland and i could never leave
i have reasons to live in europe i have
a daughter in europe fine if there's a
vegan movement i can be a part of i like
i've learned languages a lot harder than
polish you know like sorry i forget now
it was poland or the ukraine or what i
like living in a war zone i like living
in a poverty-stricken war zone i prefer
living in places like cambodia and [ __ ]
you know really i don't need to live in
i don't need to live in bourgeois
comfort but like you know like she wrote
me this one message that just said in
this sense like that she really felt
they were just the very beginning of
trying to get veganism going challenging
this overwhelmingly pro-meat pro-alcohol
pro-fur culture and i was like oh well
great look let's talk on skype i think
it was whatever didn't say skype i said
telephone like look let's let's talk
like i want to talk like i want to get
involved let's do it you know again i
don't know what's possible
never another message it was one that
never heard
but like like in the whole eight years i
i'd have to sit here and really think
like how many how many little
conversations like that were there in
the in the whole eight years it is very
close to zero you know
and that she wasn't even promising
anything
she just said she wanted to talk to me
about it
you know it was no there was no real
okay i was gonna say there's no
initiative there was a little bit of
initiative there that's why i remember
you know
so look guys we had eight years
hope you enjoyed it
hope you feel good about yourself
did you see the new star wars movie
like what the [ __ ] are you doing with
your life
what are you gonna tell your grandkids
you know
you know it's it's way past fiddling
well rome burns and again it's not it's
not the focus
of this
live stream it's not the focus of this
episode but every day
pigs are being lowered down in those
[ __ ] demonic gas chambers these
vertical
gas chambers and are thrashing and
screaming themselves to death and every
day human beings are being brutalized by
it too i even feel bad just for the
people who work in that slaughterhouse
and watch the animals die i mean i know
i know the humans are profiting from it
but still i pity the slaughterhouse
workers you know
okay so i'm going to wrap something do
you want to say things are you
ready
no no no no no it's cool so look uh
again so guys i'm trying to just
calibrate this around a frame this way
you can see why
uh someone from the audience called i
love animals says welcome to the
audience i haven't seen you before i
love animals says quote maybe veganism
needs a new branding to change the
narrative to food justice or something
like that i presume most people have a
negative reaction to world vegan because
it feels judgmental or that you're an
immortal spirit okay great theory
how much of a [ __ ] difference do you
think that's going to make in the next
20 years
we've already done all this [ __ ] guys
i'm sorry we tried rebranding animal
rights in different ways we tried
rebranding veganism the plant-based diet
like i'm not saying this to ridicule you
but it's ridiculous all right like it is
ridiculous if you think
that transforming the vegan movement by
changing the
the optics
right changing the branding from vegan
to food justice
do you think that's going to be like a
five percent improvement don't get 10
what kind of impact do you think it's
going to have realistically i don't i i
don't even think it's going to be 1
but like you know what i mean that kind
of difference in brandon what if peta
changed what if you change the names of
peta that's a great example people for
the ethical treatment of animals they
could change their name to people for
food justice
maybe they would be five percent more
successful maybe they'd be ten percent
more so maybe maybe ten percent less
successful okay like i i get it what
you're saying here but in this context
looking at the last 20 years looking the
next 20 years and calibrating this in
terms of real world outcomes that are
relevant to global warming outcomes that
are going to impact billions of people
fast
right this is a joke
this is less than nothing
i just want to say guys
every single one of the people
who were more hardcore than me
okay the people i knew in the movement
who felt that i was too soft core in my
approach
to veganism
you know
every single one of them burnt out and
disappeared
accomplishing nothing
all right
you know you you might
not remember josh quote-unquote
vegan revolution you know that guy used
to look down his nose at me
like i'm a sellout like i'm a moderate
as opposed to him because he's an
extremist do you remember the girl i did
a long video and i break down weeping in
the video
called the agony of activism with a girl
named zaria right so she was supposedly
hardcore and looked down her nose at me
like i'm a moderate like i'm not serious
about vegan accident where is she now so
i know i mean i know she's not on
youtube she deleted all her youtube
stuff yeah well she burnt out she
accomplished absolutely nothing i mean
of course there are also all these
people who actually went back to eating
meat uh what's his name the vegan prince
what was that guy's name that piece [ __ ]
that that athlete
uh
tim timothy sheaf
timothy sheef the prince
of the vegan movement
believed in the flat earth
theory where are they
now
okay like i'm just saying all the people
who thought they were more hard body
than me who thought they were more
hardcore thought they were more real all
the people who thought they were the
future of the vegan movement you know
down to and including
freely the banana girl okay they're
burnt out they're broken they gave up
they quit you can look back at the last
20 years you can draw all the
conclusions you want you can draw up
whatever analysis you want when you're
calibrating this discussion in terms of
real world outcomes the ineluctable
outcomes of climate change and the scale
on which we would need people to commit
to veganism not thousands not tens of
thousands not millions but billions that
we need billions of people to be vegan
and why why why why
because if only 10 percent of the
population becomes vegan
that doesn't eliminate meat production
it just makes meat production cheaper
all you do with the laws of supply and
demand if people eat 10 percent less
beef in the united states of america the
other i'm sorry sorry i should i can't
say that if 10
of people stop eating beef in the united
states america the other 90 percent just
enjoy cheaper beef and quite likely
they'll even eat more they'll either eat
the same amount or eat even more all
right 10
becoming vegan will not have the
ecological outcomes we want never never
ever ever i already gave you examples of
this you can look at taiwan you can look
at israel small countries that have the
largest percentage of vegans in the
world those two
taiwan and but guess what at the same
time the total population of humans is
increasing and the amount of meat per
capita consumed is increasing and the
ecological impact of the vegan minority
is absolutely nothing so when we
calibrate the problem in this way and
we're talking about the next 20 years
we're talking about running out of time
before global warming has unspeakable
civilization altering impacts on our
lives right
look back at all the vegan leaders who
were look back at all the vegan
commentators and everything else look
look at the the legal change as you guys
are are mentioning that would be
necessary look at the challenge to our
culture to our more race to our
assumptions that that needs to happen
absolutely
nothing positive is going on there is
nothing and nobody to be believed in all
right there's nobody to support okay the
future of the vegan movement is not dr
greger all right and it's not freely the
banana girl and it's not nina and it's
not randa and it's not gary francione
and it's not gary yourofsky there's a
guy who thought he was more hardcore
than me who burnt out there's another
example of that horse [ __ ]
gary gary yourofsky when the going gets
tough the tough gets going holy [ __ ]
yeah right everybody's [ __ ] hero
everybody's [ __ ] vegan gary yourofsky
what's he gonna accomplish in the next
20 years nothing what did he accomplish
in the last 20 years more harm than good
in my opinion you know okay okay
so you know so what now
what next you know tragically all i can
say as always the future of the vegan
movement is you
or else it is nothing at all okay
any time you trust a charity anytime you
trust a foundation anytime you give a
donation to someone else you're
basically making the judgment that you
are not competent to do that thing
yourself you can't do it with your own
hands with your own mind with your own
judgment right
right now there is nobody else you can
trust there's nobody you can give money
to to make this happen either you and i
whoever you are watching this video
either we are going to make something
happen ourselves or else nothing is
going to happen at all and we will be in
the position of standing around with our
arms crossed smugly smiling and saying
we told you so we can be the most smug
of [ __ ] corpses floating as the ocean
levels rise